Risk Details
Type: Quota Share Treaty
Reinsured: THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into by and between:
and/or their Quota Share Reinsurers and/or any or all of the respective branches, predecessors,
successors and/or assigns of the above companies and entities, as applicable (hereinafter called the
"Company") of the one part, and the various reinsurers as identified by the Signing Page(s) attaching
to and forming a part of this Agreement (each hereinafter called a "Reinsurer") of the other part.
The term "Company" will be held to include any and/or all insurance and reinsurance companies or
entities which are or hereafter become a subsidiary or affiliate of any of the aforementioned
companies or entities unless otherwise notified to the Reinsurer.
Period: Quota share Agreement in respect of risks attaching during the period 1 June 2018 to31 May
2019, both days inclusive, local standard time.
Risks accepted under any Master Agreement, Lineslip or Binding Authority shall run to their natural
expiry whether incepting prior to, or after, the expiration date; provided such Master Agreement,
Lineslip or Binding Authority is accepted prior to the expiration date. It is understood and agreed that
the attachment date of declarations and/or cessions made under any Master Agreements and/or
Lineslips and/or Binding Authorities shall, for the purposes of this Contract, be deemed to be the
attachment date of such Master Agreement and/or Lineslip and/or Binding Authority.
Class of Business: To cover all business issued by or contracted for by the Company in respect to all
‘New Energy’ insurance risks.
New Energy shall include: Waste to Energy Waste to Fuels Energy Storage including Battery
Storage Fuel Cells
Originated and/or underwritten by New Energy Risk,as defined by the Company.
New Energy Risk, Inc. a Delaware corporation ("NER"), and an affiliate of XL Group Ltd. a Bermuda
limited company.
The maximum term for any original risk shall be 10years, plus a maximum Commissioning Period of
2 years
Commissioning Period means the earlier of (i) the date upon which the project passes the
commissioning test, or (ii) the date two years following the date of issuance of the original risk
Treaty Detail:
Section A:
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, and in consideration of the premium payable
to the Reinsurer hereunder, the Company agrees to cede, and the Reinsurer agrees to accept, a
70% quota share of all Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses arising in connection with such
Losses, arising under original policies issued by or contracted for by the Company as defined in the
Class of Business up to a limit of USD 100,000,000 (for 100% under this section) of any one original
policy.
Section B:
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, and in consideration of the premium payable
to the Reinsurer hereunder, the Company agrees to cede, and the Reinsurer agrees to accept, a
90% quota share of all Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses arising in connection with such
Losses, arising under original policies issued by or contracted for by the Company as defined in the
Class of Business up to a limit of USD 50,000,000 (for 100% under this section) of any one original
policy for amounts surplus to the limit specified in Section A.
Applicable to Sections A and B.
For the avoidance of doubt, exposure under each section will be pro rata as to the amount covered
by each section bears to the total amount covered under and ceded to this Agreement.
Loss Adjustment Expenses will be in addition to the maximum cession each section and shall be
applied pro rata as established above.
The Company in its sole discretion shall determine what constitutes one original policy.
Territorial Scope: Losses wheresoever occurring.
Conditions: This Reinsurance shall be subject to the same terms, clauses and conditions, exclusions
and warranties as appear in the policies protected hereunder, so far as applicable hereunder.
Unless otherwise stated all terms and conditions shall apply equally to both Section A and Section B
In the event of any contradiction between the terms and conditions of such policies protected
hereunder and the terms and conditions of this Reinsurance, then the terms and conditions of this
Reinsurance shall prevail.
The Reinsured is to be the sole judge as to what constitutes any one risk and their decision shall be
final and binding to Reinsurers hereon.
All terms and conditions are as per the original risks applicable hereto and to follow the settlements
of the Reinsured in every respect subject to the Conditions of this Agreement as contained in the
Conditions hereto.
Additional clauses as per the schedule of Conditions included herein.
Exclusions: This Agreement shall be subject to the exclusions as per the original policies bound
hereunder.
Rate: The Reinsured shall pay the Reinsurers their proportionate share of the Original Gross
Premium, as received by the Reinsured, in respect of all original policies pro rata as to the amount
covered by each section bears to the total amount covered and ceded under this Agreement
The term "Original Gross Premiums" (OGP) shall mean the original gross premiums received by the
Reinsured less cancellations, return premium, taxes, less premiums paid by way of reinsurance
recoveries under which inure to the benefit of Reinsurers hereon. Overriding Commission: The
Reinsurers shall pay a Commission in respect of the costs and expenses for administering the
underwriting calculated as 30% of the Reinsurer’s proportionate share of the Original Gross
Premium to the Reinsured. The Reinsurer(s) shall contribute to payment of the Overriding
Commission in the same proportions as their percentage participations.
This Overriding Commission shall be paid quarterly, in accordance with the Accounts Clause
withinConditions.
Accounts: Quarterly in accordance with the provisions of Accounts Clause within Conditions.
Loss Advice: Any incurred Loss of USD 1,000,000 (for 100%) or greater to be advised to Reinsurers.
Cash Loss Limit: USD 1,000,000 (for 100%)
Payments Terms: None
Premium Payment None Terms: Taxes Payable by the Reinsured and Administered by Reinsurers:
None
Special Acceptances: Business which is not within the scope of this Agreement may be submitted to
the Slip Leader for special acceptance hereunder and such business, if accepted by the Slip Leader,
shall be binding on all Reinsurers hereunder and subject to all terms, conditions and limitations of
this Agreement except as modified by the special acceptance.
Any special acceptance agreed to by the Slip Leader will be binding on all Subscribing Reinsurers
hereon. The Slip Leader will be deemed to have accepted a risk, if it has not responded within ten
(10) working days after receiving the underwriting information on such risk. Further, should any
Subscribing Reinsurer become a party to this Agreement subsequent to the acceptance of any
business not normally covered hereunder, it will automatically accept said business as being part of
this Agreement.
Choice of Law and Jurisdiction: As per the Arbitration/ Law Clause
Loss Reserve and Interest: None.
Recording, Transmitting and Storing Information: The Intermediary may maintain all files in relation
to this Agreement electronically.
Reinsurer Agreement Documentation: This document details the Agreement terms entered into by
the Reinsurers and constitutes the Agreement Document.
The endorsement(s) or (e-endorsement(s))signed by Reinsurers shall form evidence of the changes
agreed.
Note: A separately prepared wording/policy will not be issued for agreement in respect of this
Agreement.
Conditions Terminology Clarification Wherever used hereunder, the terms:
“Reinsured” shall be understood to mean “Company”, “Reassured” or whatever other terms are used
throughout the Agreement to designate the reinsured company or companies.
“Contract” shall be understood to mean “Agreement”, or whatever other terms are used to designate
this reinsurance document.
Access to Records The Reinsurer or its duly designated representatives has the right to visit the
offices of the Company at a site or sites designated by the Company to inspect, examine, audit and
verify any of the policy, underwriting, accounting or claims files (the "Records"), other than
proprietary or privileged documents, that are within the Company’s possession or reasonable control
and/or can reasonably be retrieved and which are related to the business reinsured under this
Agreement. Access to Records will be during normal business hours on a mutually agreeable date
after the Reinsurer has given the Company prior written notice of its desire to inspect, examine, audit
and verify such Records. Unless otherwise agreed to by the parties, the Reinsurer’s inspection,
examination, audit and verification of the Company’s Records will last no more than two (2) weeks
and take place no longer than sixty (60) days after receipt by the Company of the Reinsurer’s notice
of its desire to inspect, examine, audit and verify such Records. This right will be exercisable during
the term of this Agreement or after the termination or expiration of this Agreement for so long as
there are any sums due from one party to the other or reserves advised to the Reinsurer under this
Agreement. Notwithstanding the above, the Reinsurer does not have any right of access to the
Records of the Company if it is not current in all undisputed payments due the Company. Further, it
is understood and the Reinsurer agrees that such access may be subject to the execution of a
reasonable confidentiality agreement and may be restricted, in certain circumstances, by
confidentiality agreements between the Company and its policyholders, or by law or government
restrictions. Nothing in this Article requires any reinsured company to maintain or to make available
any of its Records for longer than the period required by the laws or regulations applicable to that
reinsured company.
Delays, Errors and Omissions Any inadvertent error, omission or delay in complying with the terms
and conditions of this Agreement will not be held to relieve either party hereto from any liability which
would attach to it hereunder if such error, omission or delay had not been made, provided such error,
omission or delay is rectified promptly upon discovery. Nothing contained in this Article will be held
to impose liability on either party greater than would have attached hereunder had such error,
omission or delay not occurred.
Inadvertent error, omission or delay includes any non-disclosure or misrepresentation of a material
fact made to the Reinsurer at placement of this Agreement provided such non-disclosure or
misrepresentation was free from any reckless or fraudulent conduct. Solely with respect to any
negligent non-disclosure or misrepresentation of a material fact, it is agreed that the Reinsurer will
be entitled to be placed in the position it proves on the balance of probabilities that it would have
been in had such non-disclosure or misrepresentation not occurred.
Entire Agreement and Amendments This Agreement, together with each Reinsurer’s Signing Page
(and any documents incorporated by reference in the Articles of this Agreement and in the Signing
Page) and any addenda and endorsements attached hereto, constitutes the entire agreement
between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, and there exist no other written or oral
understandings, agreements, or assurances with respect to such matters. This Agreement may only
be altered or amended in any of its terms and conditions in writing by mutual consent of the
Company and the Reinsurer and such written documentation will then constitute a part of this
Agreement.
Accounts The Reinsured shall render a quarterly Statement of Account showing the total of all
transactions accounted forduring the preceding quarter; the said Account shall be rendered within 60
days of the close of the relevant quarter.
All uncontested balances of quarterly Statements of Account to be settled by debtor party within 30
days of receipt of such Accounts.
All Cash Losses to be settled within 10 days of receipt by reinsurers.
For the purposes of the foregoing, the term “Quarterly” shall mean quarterly accounts being
produced as at 1 September, 1 December, 1 March and 1 June of each year.
Transactions hereunder shall be in USD. Original currencies other than USD, if any, shall for the
purpose of this Reinsurance, be converted into USD at the rate of exchange adopted by the
Reinsured from time to time for the purposes of its own accounts.
Definitions “Loss(es)” will mean amounts paid or payable by the Company under its original policy or
policies, subject to the original policy (or policies) limit(s) which reduce or exhaust the original policy
limit, including any Extra Contractual Obligations Loss (as defined herein) andany Excess Limits
Liability Loss (as defined herein).
All salvages, subrogation recoveries or payments recovered or received subsequent to a Loss
settlement under this Agreement will be applied as if recovered or received prior to the aforesaid
settlement and all necessary adjustments will be made to the parties hereto, provided always that
nothing in this definition will be construed to mean that Losses under this Agreement are not
recoverable until the Company’s total Loss has been ascertained.
“Loss Adjustment Expense” means costs and expenses incurred by the Company in connection with
the investigation, appraisal, adjustment, settlement, litigation, defense or appeal of a specific claim
or Loss, or alleged Loss, including but not limited to:
1.court costs;
2.costs of supersedeas and appeal bonds;
3.monitoring counsel expenses;
4.legal expenses and costs incurred in connection with coverage questions and legal actions
connected thereto, including but not limited to declaratory judgment actions;
5.post-judgment interest;
6.pre-judgment interest, unless included as part of an award or judgment;
7. a pro rata share of salaries and expenses of the Company’s field employees and all in-house
attorneys according to the time occupied in adjusting, defending, monitoring and settling such Loss,
and expenses of other employees of the Company who have been temporarily diverted from their
normal and customary duties and assigned to the field adjustment of Losses covered by this
Agreement; and
8.subrogation, salvage and recovery expenses.
9.statutory penalties
“Statutory Penalties” within this definition is intended to cover, subject to the reinsurance
agreement’s terms and conditions, statutory fines or penalties incurred in the area of adjustment or
settlement of claims. However, market conduct fines, RICO violations, and fines imposed by
regulatory agencies such as OSHA do not fall within the scope of statutory penalties covered in this
Agreement.
Arbitration / Law 1. Except as otherwise provided in the Special Termination and Commutation
Article, any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement or its breach, termination, formation or
invalidity will be finally and fully determined by arbitration.
2.a. If more than one Reinsurer under this Agreement or any other reinsurance agreement covering
the same risk is in dispute with the Company where there are common questions of law or fact, the
Reinsurer agrees that at the request of the Company all such Reinsurers will constitute and act as
one party and communications will be made by the Company to each of the Reinsurers constituting
the one party. It is agreed that the Reinsurers will have the right to assert several rather than joint
defenses or claims and retain separate counsel. All affected Reinsurers will join and participate in
one arbitration at the Company’s written request to the Reinsurers within thirty (30)days of the
Company’s appointment of its arbitrator, unless a Reinsurer within ten (10)days from receipt of the
Company’s written request, responds in writing to the Company that it declines to participate in the
arbitration, and that it unconditionally agrees to be bound by the decision and the award of the panel.
b. Unless otherwise agreed to by the parties, all disputes involving business written only by
reinsured company(ies) not domiciled in the United States will finally and fully be determined by
arbitration to take place in London, England, and the law of England and Wales will govern the rights
of the parties in respect of such business and the determination of such disputes under the
provisions of ARIAS UK rules, for the time being in force. Any terms and conditions of the original
policies and any obligations deriving therefrom which are or become governed by English law, rule,
practice or jurisdiction under this Agreement willbe construed as having the same meaning and/or
effect under this Agreement as has been or would be given to them under the law, rule, practice or
jurisdiction applicable to the original policies.
c. Unless otherwise agreed to by the parties, all disputes involving business written only by US
domiciled reinsured company(ies) will finally and fully be determined by arbitration to take place in
New York, New York and the law ofthe State of New York will govern the rights of the parties in
respect of such business and the determination of such disputes. The parties to the arbitration will
each bear the fees and costs of their own arbitrator and one half of the fees and the costs of the third
arbitrator (or the sole arbitrator in any proceeding conducted pursuant to 3b below) and all other fees
(including legal fees), costs and expenses of the arbitration will be determined by the panel.
d. In a dispute involving both US domiciled and non-US domiciled reinsured companies, the
reinsured companies can elect to have two separate arbitrations in accordance with paragraphs 2b
and c above or a single arbitration using either 2b or 2c.
e. In a dispute relating to claims involving solely the Australian Branch of XL Insurance Company SE,
the dispute and any appeal from any judgment in respect of that dispute will be submitted to the
exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts of New South Wales and the Agreement will be interpreted as a
matter of the law of New South Wales.
Arbitration Procedure
3.a. Any party may, in the event of a dispute, notify the other party of its desire to arbitrate the matter,
and of the name of the arbitrator it has selected. The other party will within thirty (30)days select an
arbitrator and simultaneously notify the party desiring arbitration of the name of the second arbitrator.
b. If the other party fails or refuses to nominate the second arbitrator in accordance with 3a, the
arbitration will be decided by the single arbitrator nominated by the party requesting arbitration.
c. In the event that two arbitrators are chosen, they will, within thirty (30)days after the appointment
of the second arbitrator, choose a third arbitrator. In the event that they fail to do so within thirty
(30) days after the appointment of the second arbitrator, where the dispute is to be decided by
English arbitration, either of the parties may after notice to the other party, apply to ARIAS-UK for the
appointment of a third arbitrator. If the dispute is to be decided by US arbitration, the parties will
jointly apply to ARIAS-US for the appointment of a third arbitrator.
d. All arbitrators will be active or retired lawyers with not less than ten (10)years’ experience in
insurance or reinsurance law or active or retired officers of insurance or reinsurance companies or
Underwriters at Lloyd's, London with not less than ten (10)years’ experience, and will not have a
personal or financial interest in the parties or the outcome of the arbitration. For the avoidance of
doubt, the arbitrators will be completely impartial and disinterested in their respective appointing
parties and in the result of the arbitration.
4. The panel will fix, by a notice in writing to the parties involved, a reasonable time and place for the
hearing and may prescribe reasonable rules and regulations governing the course and conduct of
the arbitration proceeding, including without limitation discovery by the parties.
5. The decision rendered by the majority of the arbitrators will be final and binding upon all parties to
the proceeding. The panel is prohibited from awarding punitive or exemplary damages in any award
that it may enter. Judgment may be entered upon the award of the panel in any court having
jurisdiction thereof.
6. In the event that this Article is invalid, unenforceable or for any other reason cannot be performed,
or any arbitration proceedings are stayed, set aside or injuncted, this Agreement will be subject to
the exclusive jurisdiction of the English Courts in respect of non-US domiciled reinsured companies
and any Court of competent jurisdiction in the US in respect of US domiciled reinsured companies,
and further the Reinsurer in respect of US domiciled reinsured companies agrees at the request of
the Company to submit itself to such jurisdiction in accordance with the terms of the Service of Suit
Article.
7. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article, in the event that the total amount in dispute is USD
1,000,000 or less, or the Reinsurer is a Run-Off Reinsurer (as hereinafter defined), any arbitration
proceeding instituted under this Agreement willbe conducted:
a. in accordance with the ARIAS UK Fast Track Arbitration Rules (if the arbitration proceeding
involves business written only by reinsured company(ies) not domiciled in the United States); or
b. the ARIAS U.S. Streamlined Rules for Small Claims Disputes (the “U.S. ARIAS Streamlined
Rules”) (if the arbitration proceeding involves business written only by U.S. domiciled reinsured
companies);or
c. In a dispute involving both US domiciled and non-US domiciled reinsured companies, the
reinsured companies can elect to have two separate arbitrations in accordance with paragraphs 7a
and 7b above or a single arbitration using either 7a or 7b
provided, however, that the arbitrator qualification requirements set forth in Section 3d of this Article
willbe applicable to any arbitration proceeding conducted in accordance with this Section 7.
8. For purposes of Section 7 of this Article, a Run-Off Reinsurer means any Reinsurer that:
a. has been ordered by a state insurance department or other legal authority to cease writing
business, or has been placed under regulatory supervision or in rehabilitation; or
b has ceased reinsurance underwriting operations; or
c has transferred its claim paying authority to an unaffiliated entity or in any way has delegated its
obligations under this Agreement to an unaffiliated entity without the prior written consent of the
Company, provided, however, the transfer of claims-paying authority or administration to a third
party where the Reinsurer maintains control over claims settlement decisions, or the agreement by a
Lloyd’s syndicate to follow claims settlements procedures under Lloyd’s Claims Scheme (Combined)
or agreement by an International Underwriting Association of London company to follow IUA Claims
Agreement practices, willnot constitute a transfer of its claims-paying authority for purposes of this
sub-paragraph; or
d. engages in a process of Scheme of Arrangement or a similar procedure related to this Agreement,
including but not limited to an insurance business transfer scheme pursuant to Part VII of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (U.K.) as may be amended from time to time; or
e. in any other way, has assigned its interests or delegated its obligations under this Agreement to
an unaffiliated entity.
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) A. The Reinsurer will provide to the Company its
FATCA compliant documentation on or before the effective date of this Agreement. To the extent the
Reinsurer is subject to the deduction and withholding of premium payable hereon and has not
provided the requisite filing form as set forth in the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (Sections
1471-1474 of the Internal Revenue Code), the Reinsurer agrees to allow such withholding from the
premium payable under this Agreement. Such withholding will not affect the validity of this
Agreement or provide the Reinsurer with any rights of cancellation, offset or the like.
B. The Reinsurer agrees to indemnify the Company for any liability, expense, interest or penalty the
Company may incur by reason of the Reinsurer’s breach of this Article.
Federal Excise Tax (if applicable) A. The Reinsurer has agreed to allow for the purpose of paying
the Federal Excise Tax the applicable percentage of the premium payable hereon (as imposed
under Section 4371 of the Internal Revenue Code) to be deducted from the amount of premium to
be transmitted to the Reinsurer to the extent such premium is subject to the Federal Excise Tax.
B. In the event of any return of premium becoming due hereunder, the Reinsurer will deduct the
applicable percentage from the return premium payable hereon and the Company or its agent
should take steps to recover the tax from the United States Government.
Follow the Fortunes Any business ceded hereunder is subject to the terms and conditions of the
Company's policy or policies and automatically follows all changes in coverage and all
endorsements made a part of such policy or policies, subject to the exclusions set forth herein, and
the other terms and conditions of this Agreement, as set forth herein. Any increase in limits of
liability made in such policy or policies are automatically binding upon the
Reinsurer from the date such increase is effective, subject always to the limits and retention as set
forth under the Treaty Detail.
Should any regulatory or other legal restriction of any state require modification of any subject policy
to which this Agreement applies, the liability of the Reinsurer will follow that of the Company, subject
to the exclusions set forth herein and the other terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Loss Notices and Follow the Settlements A.The Company will be the sole judge as to what will
constitute a claim or loss covered under the Company's policy and as to the Company's liability
thereunder. The Company will, at its sole discretion, adjust, settle, or compromise all claims and
losses. All such adjustments, settlements, and compromises will be unconditionally binding on the
Reinsurer in proportion to its participation hereon. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an ex gratia
payment will be covered hereunder only if the Company has obtained the written consent of the
Reinsurer prior to making such payment.
B.The Company will likewise, at its sole discretion, commence, continue, defend, or withdraw from
actions, suits or proceedings and generally handle all matters related to all claims and losses.
Insolvency (This Article will apply severally to each reinsured company referenced within the
definition of "Company" in the Preamble to this Agreement. Further, this Article and the laws of the
domiciliary jurisdiction will apply in the event of the insolvency of any company intended to be
covered hereunder. In the event of a conflict between any provision of this Article and the laws of
the domiciliary jurisdiction of any company intended to be covered hereunder, that domiciliary
jurisdiction's laws will prevail.)
In the event of the insolvency of the Company, or other similar proceedings, and the appointment of
a liquidator, receiver, or other statutory successor, reinsurance due under this Agreement will be
payable, with reasonable provision for verification, on the basis of the liability of the Company
resulting from claims allowed against the Company in the liquidation or similar proceeding without
diminution because such liquidator, receiver or other statutory successor has failed to pay all or a
portion of any claims.
Payments by the Reinsurer as set forth above will be made directly and exclusively to the Company
or to its liquidator, receiver or other statutory successor, except (where applicable) as provided by
subsection (a) of section 4118 of New York Insurance Law or except (a) where this Agreement
specifies another payee in the event of the insolvency, or (b) the Reinsurer, with the consent of the
direct insureds, has assumed such policy obligations of the Company as direct obligations to the
payees under such policies in substitution for the obligations of the Company to such payees.
In the event of the insolvency of the Company, or other similar proceedings, the liquidator, receiver
or other statutory successor will give written notice of the pendency of a claim against the Company
under policies reinsured within a reasonable time after such claim is filed in the insolvency
proceeding. During the pendency of such claim, the Reinsurer has the right but not the duty to
investigate said claim and interpose in the proceeding where the claim is to be adjudicated, at its
own expense, any defense that they may deem available to the Company, or its liquidator or
receiver. The expense thus incurred by the Reinsurer will be chargeable against the Company,
subject to court approval, against the insolvent Company as part of the expense of liquidation to the
extent of a proportionate share of the benefit which may accrue to the Company solely as a result of
the defense undertaken by the Reinsurer. Where two or more Reinsurers are involved in the same
claim and a majority in interest elects to interpose defense to such claim, the expense will be
apportioned in accordance with the terms of this Article as though such expense had been incurred
by the Company.
Intermediary .... is hereby recognized as the Intermediary negotiating this Agreement for all
business hereunder. All communications (including but not limited to notices, statements, premium,
return premium, commissions, taxes, Losses, Loss Adjustment Expense, salvages and Loss
settlements) relating thereto shall be transmitted to the Reinsured or the Reinsurer through......
Payments by the Company to the Intermediary shall be deemed to constitute payment to the
Reinsurer. Payments by the Reinsurer to the Intermediary shall be deemed to constitute payment to
the Company only to the extent that such payments are actually received by the Company.
Mode of Execution This Agreement may be executed by:
(a) An original written ink signature of paper documents.
(b) An exchange of facsimile copies showing the original written ink signature of paper documents.
(c) Electronic signature technology employing computer software and a digital signature or digitizer
pen pad to capture a person’s handwritten signature in such a manner that the signature is unique to
the person signing, is under the sole control of the person signing, is capable of verification to
authenticate the signature and is linked to the document signed in such a manner that if the data is
changed, such signature is invalidated.
The use of any one or a combination of these methods of execution shall constitute a legally binding
and valid signing of this Agreement. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts,
each of which, when duly executed, shall be deemed an original, but all of which taken together will
constitute one and the same instrument.
Multicedent
The retention of the Company and the liability of the Reinsurer and all other benefits accruing to the
Company as provided in this Agreement or any amendments hereto, will apply to the affiliated
companies comprising the Company as a group and not separately to each of the affiliated
companies.
Nevertheless, the Reinsurer and each reinsured company within the definition of "Company" in this
Agreement agree to honor the terms set forth herein as if this Agreement were a separate
agreement between the Reinsurer and each reinsured company. This will not operate so as to
increase either the Reinsurer’s or the Company's liability under this Agreement.
Any conduct or misconduct or allegation of conduct or misconduct including any omission in relation
or connection with or under this Agreement by one reinsured company will not affect the validity,
amount or terms of the cover available to the other reinsured companies. In the event of a dispute or
difference arising between the Reinsurer and one or more of the entities comprising the Company,
this Agreement will continue without prejudice to the rights of those reinsured companies which are
not in dispute including their rights to recover under this Agreement.
Loss notices, reports and premium payments made to the Reinsurer are to be in sufficient detail to
identify what portion of any premium or loss relates to each reinsured company.
Reinsurance Credit; Reinsurance Security Section 1.1 The Reinsurer will take all steps necessary to
comply with all applicable laws and regulations so as to permit the Company to obtain full credit for
the reinsurance provided by this Agreement in all applicable jurisdictions, to the extent credit is not
otherwise available under applicable law or regulations. It is understood and agreed that any term or
condition required by such law or regulation to be included in this Agreement for the Company to
receive financial credit for the reinsurance provided by this Agreement will be deemed to be
incorporated in this Agreement by reference.
Section 1.2 Where required by applicable law in order for the Company to take financial credit for the
reinsurance provided by this Agreement, the Company will be entitled to withhold funds from the
Reinsurer and/or require the Reinsurer to make a cash deposit with the Company) as security for the
payment of the latter's obligations, herein called the "Deposit". The Deposit will equal the
Reinsurer's share under this Agreement of (i) Losses and Loss Expenses paid by the Company but
not recovered from the Reinsurer, (ii) reserves for Losses and Loss Expenses reported and
outstanding, (iii) reserves for Losses and Loss Expenses incurred but not reported and (iv) unearned
premium reserves (collectively the “Reinsurer’s Collateral Obligations”).
The Deposit will be adjusted periodically but not more frequently than quarterly at the Company’s
discretion to equal the Reinsurer’s Collateral Obligations, calculated on the basis of the requirements
of applicable law, corresponding to the Reinsurer's share.
At any time after default or anticipatory default by the Reinsurer of payments owing to the Company
under this Agreement, the Company may appropriate so much of the Deposit as may be required to
eliminate the default.
The Company may at its discretion, instead of taking any part of the Deposit, require payment of any
sum in default, and it will be no defense to any such claim that the Company might have had
recourse to the Deposit.
Upon termination or expiration of this Agreement the Deposit will be adjusted quarterly for the
business written under the terms of this Agreement.
Section 1.3 A Letter of Credit or a Trust Account may be substituted or combined with/for the
Deposit. Should such substitution or combination be made, notwithstanding any other provisions of
this Agreement, the Letter of Credit or Trust Account may be drawn upon by the Company or its
successor in interest, including without limitation, any liquidator, rehabilitator, receiver or conservator
of the Company, at any time to fund the Deposit or for any amounts due from the Reinsurer under
this Agreement to the extent permitted by applicable law and the following provisions. If so used, the
Reinsurer will otherwise not be liable for the same amount.
The Company and the Reinsurer agree that the Deposit, Letter of Credit or Trust Account will be in
such form and held in such manner so as to allow the Company to take credit, on a statutory
accounting basis, for the reinsurance provided by this Agreement, and also allow, if possible, the
Reinsurer to treat the Deposit as an admitted asset in accordance with applicable law.
Section 1.4 If the Reinsurer elects to substitute or combine a Letter of Credit with/for the Deposit, the
following provisions will apply to the Reinsurer with respect to any Letter of Credit provided for the
benefit of the Company by the Reinsurer:
(a) The Reinsurer will be the applicant for and will provide to the Company a clean, unconditional,
irrevocable Letter of Credit with the Company as the beneficiary covering the Reinsurer’s Collateral
Obligations under this Agreement. The Letter of Credit will be issued or confirmed by a bank, and
will be in a form, that complies with all applicable requirements of regulatory authorities having
jurisdiction over the Company and which bank is acceptable to the Company. If the issuing or
confirming bank ceases to meet such requirements during the term of the Letter of Credit, the
Reinsurer will replace such Letter of Credit with a complying one upon the earlier of the stated
expiration, next extension or renewal date, or modification or amendment of the Letter of Credit. At
annual intervals, or more frequently as determined by the Company in its sole discretion but not
more frequently than quarterly, the Company will issue either a report of the Reinsurer’s Collateral
Obligations or a report of an estimate of the Reinsurer’s Collateral Obligations to the Reinsurer.
Within thirty (30) days of the Reinsurer's receipt of either a report of the Reinsurer’s Collateral
Obligations or a report of an estimate of the Reinsurer’s Collateral Obligations provided by the
Company, whichever is received by the Reinsurer earlier:
(1) if the Reinsurer's Collateral Obligations under this Agreement exceed the then existing
balance of the Letter of Credit made available, the Reinsurer will secure delivery to the Company
ofan amendment to the Letter of Credit increasing the amount of the Letter of Credit available by the
amount of such difference, or
(2) if the Reinsurer's Collateral Obligations under this Agreement are less than the balance of the
Letter of Credit available on the accounting date, the Company will release such excess credit by
agreeing to an amendment to the Letter of Credit, reducing the amount of the Letter of Credit
available by the amount of such excess credit.
(b) The Reinsurer and the Company agree that the Letter of Credit provided by the Reinsurer
pursuant to this Agreement may be drawn upon at any time, notwithstanding any other provisions in
this Agreement, and will be utilized by the Company or its successors in interest, including without
limitation, any liquidator, rehabilitator, receiver or conservator of the Company, only for one or more
of the following:
(1) to reimburse the Company for the Reinsurer's share of premiums returned to the owners of
policies reinsured under this Agreement on account of cancellations of such policies;
(2) to reimburse the Company for the Reinsurer's share of Losses and Loss Expenses paid by the
Company for the Reinsurer's share of such Losses and Loss Expenses incurred pursuant to the
provisions of the policies reinsured by this Agreement;
(3) to fund an account with the Company in an amount at least equal to the deduction, for
reinsurance ceded, from the Company's liabilities for policies ceded under this Agreement; such
amount will include, but not be limited to, amounts for reserves for claims and losses incurred
(including losses incurred but not reported), Loss Expenses reserves and unearned premium
reserves;
(4) where the Company has received notification of the non-renewal of the Letter of Credit and
where the Reinsurer's Collateral Obligations under this Agreement remain unliquidated and
undischarged ten (10) days prior to such expiration date, to obtain a cash deposit equal to such
obligations and deposit such amounts in a separate account, in the name of the Company, in any
United States bank or trust company which is acceptable to the Company, apart from its general
assets, in trust for such uses and purposes specified in this paragraph of this Agreement as may
remain executory after obtaining the cash deposit and for any period after such expiration date;
provided, however, that where the amounts held in such separate account exceed the actual amount
required to fund the Reinsurer's Collateral Obligations under this Agreement, the Company will make
payment to the Reinsurer of the excess amount, and
(5) to pay any other amounts the Company claims are due under this Agreement.
All of the foregoing will be applicable without diminution because of insolvency of the Company or
the Reinsurer.
(c) The Company will credit to the Reinsurer quarterly interest on the Amounts drawn from the
Letter of Credit and held pursuant to Section 1.4(b)(3) at the lesser of the Prime Rate or the same
interest rate payable on the first six-month U.S. Treasury Bill issued during each quarter.
Section 1.5 If the Reinsurer elects to substitute or combine a Trust Account with/for the Deposit, the
following provisions will apply to the Reinsurer with respect to any Trust Account established for the
benefit of the Company by the Reinsurer:
(a) The Reinsurer will enter into a trust agreement and establish a Trust Account for the benefit of
the Company, covering the Reinsurer’s Collateral Obligations under this Agreement. The trustee of
the Trust Account and the trust agreement will be acceptable to the Company and will comply with
all applicable requirements of regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over the Company. At annual
intervals, or more frequently as determined by the Company in its sole discretion, but not more
frequently than quarterly, the an amendment to the Letter of Credit increasing the amount of the
Letter of Credit available by the amount of such difference, or
(2) if the Reinsurer's Collateral Obligations under this Agreement are less than the balance of the
Letter of Credit available on the accounting date, the Company will release such excess credit by
agreeing to an amendment to the Letter of Credit, reducing the amount of the Letter of Credit
available by the amount of such excess credit.
(b) The Reinsurer and the Company agree that the Letter of Credit provided by the Reinsurer
pursuant to this Agreement may be drawn upon at any time, notwithstanding any other provisions in
this Agreement, and will be utilized by the Company or its successors in interest, including without
limitation, any liquidator, rehabilitator, receiver or conservator of the Company, only for one or more
of the following:
(1) to reimburse the Company for the Reinsurer's share of premiums returned to the owners of
policies reinsured under this Agreement on account of cancellations of such policies;
(2) to reimburse the Company for the Reinsurer's share of Losses and Loss Expenses paid by the
Company for the Reinsurer's share of such Losses and Loss Expenses incurred pursuant to the
provisions of the policies reinsured by this Agreement;
(3) to fund an account with the Company in an amount at least equal to the deduction, for
reinsurance ceded, from the Company's liabilities for policies ceded under this Agreement; such
amount will include, but not be limited to, amounts for reserves for claims and losses incurred
(including losses incurred but not reported), Loss Expenses reserves and unearned premium
reserves;
(4) where the Company has received notification of the non-renewal of the Letter of Credit and
where the Reinsurer's Collateral Obligations under this Agreement remain unliquidated and
undischarged ten (10) days prior to such expiration date, to obtain a cash deposit equal to such
obligations and deposit such amounts in a separate account, in the name of the Company, in any
United States bank or trust company which is acceptable to the Company, apart from its general
assets, in trust for such uses and purposes specified in this paragraph of this Agreement as may
remain executory after obtaining the cash deposit and for any period after such expiration date;
provided, however, that where the amounts held in such separate account exceed the actual amount
required to fund the Reinsurer's Collateral Obligations under this Agreement, the Company will make
payment to the Reinsurer of the excess amount, and
(5) to pay any other amounts the Company claims are due under this Agreement.
All of the foregoing will be applicable without diminution because of insolvency of the Company or
the Reinsurer.
(c) The Company will credit to the Reinsurer quarterly interest on the Amounts drawn from the
Letter of Credit and held pursuant to Section 1.4(b)(3) at the lesser of the Prime Rate or the same
interest rate payable on the first six-month U.S. Treasury Bill issued during each quarter.
Section 1.5 If the Reinsurer elects to substitute or combine a Trust Account with/for the Deposit, the
following provisions will apply to the Reinsurer with respect to any Trust Account established for the
benefit of the Company by the Reinsurer:
(a) The Reinsurer will enter into a trust agreement and establish a Trust Account for the benefit of
the Company, covering the Reinsurer’s Collateral Obligations under this Agreement. The trustee of
the Trust Account and the trust agreement will be acceptable to the Company and will comply with
all applicable requirements of regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over the Company. At annual
intervals, or more frequently as determined by the Company in its sole discretion, but not more
frequently than quarterly, the
Company will issue either a report of the Reinsurer’s Collateral Obligations or a report of an estimate
of the Reinsurer’s Collateral Obligations to the Reinsurer. Within fifteen (15) days of the Reinsurer’s
receipt of either a report of the Reinsurer’s Collateral Obligations or a report of an estimate of the
Reinsurer’s Collateral Obligations from the Company, whichever is received by the Reinsurer earlier,
the Reinsurer will adjust the assets held in the Trust Account so that the market value of such assets
meets or exceeds the amounts in such report and provide a certification to the Company of such fact.
(b) The assets deposited in the Trust Account will be valued according to their current fair market
value, and will consist only of cash (United States legal tender), certificates of deposit issued by a
United States bank and payable in United States legal tender and investments of the types specified
in section 1404(a) (1), (2), (3), (8) and (10) of the New York Insurance Law, provided that such
investments are issued by an institution that is not the parent, subsidiary or affiliate of either the
Reinsurer or the Company and are acceptable to the Company.
(c) Prior to depositing assets with the trustee, the Reinsurer will execute assignments, endorsements
in blank, or transfer legal title to the trustee of all shares, obligations or any other assets requiring
assignments, in order that the Company, or the trustee upon the direction of the Company, may
whenever necessary negotiate any such assets without consent or signature from the Reinsurer or
any other entity.
(d) All settlements of account between the Company and the Reinsurer will be made in cash or its
equivalent.
(e) The Reinsurer and the Company agree that the assets in the Trust Account, established
pursuant to this provision of this Agreement, may be withdrawn by the Company at any time,
notwithstanding any other provisions in this Agreement and will be utilized and applied by the
Company or its successor in interest, including without limitation, any liquidator, rehabilitator,
receiver or conservator of the Company, without diminution because of insolvency of the Company
or the Reinsurer, only for the following purposes:
(1) to reimburse the Company for the Reinsurer's share of premiums returned to the owners of
policies reinsured under this Agreement on account of cancellations of such policies;
(2) to reimburse the Company for the Reinsurer's share of Losses and Loss Expenses paid by the
Company but not recovered from the Reinsurer pursuant to the provisions of the policies reinsured
under this Agreement;
(3) to fund an account with the Company in amount at least equal to the deduction, for reinsurance
ceded, from the Company's liabilities for policies ceded under this Agreement; such account will
include, but not be limited to, amounts for reserves for claims and losses incurred (including losses
incurred but not reported), Loss Expense reserves and unearned premium reserves; and
(4) to pay any other amounts the Company claims are due under this Agreement.
(f) The Reinsurer has the right to seek approval from the Company to withdraw from the
aforementioned Trust Account all or any part of the assets contained therein and transfer such
assets to the Reinsurer, provided that:
(1) the Reinsurer, at the time of such withdrawal, replaces the withdrawn assets with other
qualified assets having a market value at least equal to the market value of the assets withdrawn so
as to maintain at all times the deposit in the required amount; or
(2) after such withdrawal and transfer, the market value of the Trust Account is not less than 102
percent of the required amount.
The Company will be the sole judge as to the application of this provision, but will not unreasonably
or arbitrarily withhold its approval.
(g) The Company will return any amount withdrawn in excess of the actual amounts required for in
Sections 1.5(e) (1), (2) and (3) above, or in the case of Section 1.5(e) (4), any amounts that are
subsequently determined not to be due.
(h) The Company will credit quarterly to the Reinsurer interest on the amounts drawn from the Trust
Account and held pursuant to Section 1.5(e) (3) above at the lesser of the prime rate publicly
announced from time to time by Chase Bank (National Association) or the same rate of interest
payable on the first six- month U. S. Treasury Bill issued during each quarter.
Sanction Limitation and Exclusion
The Reinsurer will not be deemed to provide cover and will not be liable to pay any claim or provide
any benefit hereunder to the extent that the provision of such cover, payment of such claim or
provision of such benefit would expose the Reinsurer to any sanction, prohibition or restriction under
United Nations resolutions or the trade or economic sanctions, laws or regulations of any jurisdiction
applicable to the Reinsurer.
Service of Suit The following Service of Suit Article is only to apply to entities of the Company
domiciled in the United States of America
(This Article only applies to Reinsurers domiciled outside of the United States and/or unauthorized in
any state, territory, or district of the United States having jurisdiction over the Company. Nothing in
this Article will be construed to override the provisions of the Arbitration/Law Article. This Article is
intended as an aid to compelling arbitration, or enforcing such arbitration, or arbitral award, and not
as an alternative to the Arbitration/Law Article for resolving disputes arising out of this agreement.)
It is agreed that in the event of the failure of the Reinsurer hereon to perform its obligations
hereunder, the Reinsurer hereon, at the request of the Company, will submit to the jurisdiction of a
court of competent jurisdiction within the United States. Nothing in this Article constitutes or should
be understood to constitute a waiver of the Reinsurer's rights to commence an action in any court of
competent jurisdiction in the United States, to remove an action to a United States District Court, or
to seek a transfer of a case to another court as permitted by the laws of the United States or of any
state in the United States. It is further agreed that service of process in such suit may be made upon
Mendes & Mount, LLP, 750 Seventh Avenue, New York, New York 10019-6829, and that in any suit
instituted, the Reinsurer will abide by the final decision of such court or of any appellate court in the
event of an appeal.
The above-named are authorized and directed to accept service of process on behalf of the
Reinsurer in any such suit and/or upon the request of the Company to give a written undertaking to
the Company that they will enter a general appearance upon the Reinsurer's behalf in the event
such a suit will be instituted.
Further, pursuant to any statute of any state, territory or district of the United States which makes
provision therefore, the Reinsurer hereon hereby designates the Superintendent, Commissioner or
Director of Insurance or other officer specified for that purpose in the statute, or his successor or
successors in office, as its true and lawful attorney upon whom may be served any lawful process in
any action, suit or proceeding instituted by or on behalf of the Company or any beneficiary
hereunder arising out of this Agreement of reinsurance, and hereby designates the above-named as
the person to whom the said officer is authorized to mail such process or a true copy thereof.
Severability In the event any provision of this Agreement is rendered illegal or unenforceable in any
jurisdiction, such provision will be considered void as respects that jurisdiction only, all other terms
will remain in full force and effect and such a consideration will not affect the validity or enforceability
of any provision of this Agreement in any other jurisdiction
Special Termination and Commutation
Definitions
“Reinsurer’s Obligations” means all obligations of the Reinsurer under this Agreement and will
include, without limitation, unearned premiums (and reserves), outstanding losses and reserves
(including IBNR), loss adjustment expenses and reserves (including IBNR) and all other balances.
“Triggering Event” means an event or condition as described below that may result in (i) termination
of this Agreement prior to the natural expiration or termination date and/or (ii) commutation of this
Agreement.
Special Termination Rights
The Company may terminate the Reinsurer’s participation in this Agreement at any time after one or
more of the following Triggering Events has occurred (provided such event has not been rectified
prior to the effective date of termination): 1.The Reinsurer (i) is acquired or controlled by any other
party (an acquisition or change in control will only have occurred if a person unaffiliated with the
Reinsurer directly or indirectly acquires thirty percent (30%) or more of the voting stock ofthe
Reinsurer, or of any person owning or controlling the Reinsurer, or of stock convertible into thirty
percent (30%) or more of such voting stock), or (ii) ceases writing new or renewal business and
elects to run-off its existing business, or (iii) sells, assigns or otherwise transfers over fifty percent
(50%) of such business to an unrelated third party or an affiliated entity, or (iv) sells, assigns or
otherwise transfers its participation in this Agreement to an affiliated entity within its holding
company system and the policyholders’ surplus of the affiliated entity is at least twenty percent
(20%) less than the Reinsurer’s policyholders’ surplus as at the end of the most recent calendar
quarter immediately preceding the sale/assignment/transfer, or (v) is merged with or into another
entity, whether or not it is the surviving entity, or (vi) is ordered to cease writing new or renewal
business by an insurance or other regulatory authority, or (vii) has its license or authority to operate
as an insurance or reinsurance company suspended, revoked or terminated or had limitations
imposed upon its ability to operate by its domiciliary jurisdiction, or (viii) the Reinsurer should at any
time become insolvent, or file a petition in bankruptcy or go into liquidation or rehabilitation, or have
a receiver appointed or engages in a process of a Scheme of Arrangement or a similar procedure,
including but not limited to an insurance business transfer scheme pursuant to Part VII of the
Financial Services and Markets Act (U.K.), as may be amended from time to time, or (ix) has
transferred its claims-paying authority under this Agreement to an unaffiliated entity or in any way
has delegated its obligations under this Agreement to an unaffiliated entity without the prior written
consent of the Company; provided, however, the transfer of claims-paying authority or administration
to a third party where the Reinsurer maintains control over claims settlement decisions, or the
agreement by a Lloyd’s syndicate to follow claims settlements procedures under Lloyd’s Claims
Scheme (Combined) or agreement by an International Underwriting Association of London company
to follow IUA Claims Agreement practices, will not constitute a transfer of its claims-paying authority
for purposes of this sub-paragraph, or (x) has failed to comply with the provisions set forth in the
funding requirements of the Reinsurance Credit; Reinsurance Security Article; or
2.The Standard & Poor’s Insurer Financial Strength rating of the Reinsurer is withdrawn (by either
Standard & Poors or the Reinsurer) or falls below “A” or the A.M. Best Financial Strength rating of
the Reinsurer is withdrawn (by either A.M. Best or the Reinsurer) or falls below “A”. In the event that
the Reinsurer has no Standard & Poor’s Insurer Financial Strength rating or no A.M. Best Financial
Strength rating as of the commencement date of this Agreement but receives such a rating during
the term of this Agreement, the Company may terminate this Agreement as provided herein if the
rating assigned to the Reinsurer by Standard & Poor’s is below “A” or if the rating assigned to the
Reinsurer by A.M. Best is below “A”. In the event that the Reinsurer is a Lloyd’s Syndicate, the
Financial Strength rating of the Lloyd’s Market will be used to determine if a Triggering Event has
occurred; or
3. There is a severance or obstruction of free and unfettered communication and/or normal
commercial and/or financial intercourse between the country in which the Company is incorporated
or has its principal office or the country from which this reinsurance is placed and the country in
which the Reinsurer is incorporated or has its principal office as a result of war, currency regulations
or any circumstances arising out of political, financial or economic emergency, other than an event
associated with economic and monetary union in the European Union.
Method of Termination
Termination by the Company will be effected by written notice of termination and will be effective
upon receipt of said notice by the Reinsurer.
Basis of the Termination
If the Company terminates the Reinsurer’s participation in this Agreement, it will have the option of
terminating it on either a cut-off or run-off basis. The Company will notify the Reinsurer in the notice
of termination as to whether the Reinsurer’s participation in this Agreement will be terminated on a
cut-off or run-off basis. If the Company elects to terminate the Reinsurer’s participation in this
Agreement on a run-off basis, it can, at any time thereafter, elect to terminate the Reinsurer’s
participation in this Agreement on a cut-off basis effective upon receipt of written notice of the
change by the Reinsurer.
Definition of Cut-Off and Run-Off
For purposes of this Article, the term “run-off” means that the Reinsurer will continue to be liable for
losses occurring or claims made on or after the effective date of termination in respect of reinsured
policies in force as of the effective date of termination. For purposes of this Article, the term “cut-off”
means that the Reinsurer will be released from losses occurring or claims made after the effective
date of termination in respect of reinsured policies in force as of the effective date of termination,
except for claims made under extended reporting periods attaching to policies that expired before
the effective date of termination.
Premium Refund Upon Termination
In the event of a termination by the Company, the Reinsurer will return the unearned pro rata portion
of premiums paid to it for exposures no longer covered as provided for in this Agreement, it being
understood that the Reinsurer will only be entitled to retain a pro rata portion of premiums earned
through the date of the termination of its participation in this Agreement and, further, the minimum
premium provisions of this Agreement, if any, will be waived. The calculation of return premiums
hereunder will be based upon the method of termination (cut-off or run-off basis) and the manner by
which risks and exposures reinsured by the Reinsurer hereunder attach to this Agreement.
Commutation/Settlement
If (i) a Triggering Event has occurred and the Reinsurer’s participation in this Agreement is
terminated under this Article or (ii) the Reinsurer’s participation in this Agreement is terminated
under any other Article of this Agreement, including natural expiration, and a Triggering Event has
occurred at any time after such termination, the Company will have the option of commuting all
remaining Reinsurer’s Obligations at any time thereafter.
Commutation Procedures
If the Company elects to commute all remaining Reinsurer’s Obligations, it will notify the Reinsurer of
such election and will present the Reinsurer with its calculation of all remaining amounts due from
the Reinsurer (the “Company’s Calculation”).
The Reinsurer will advise the Company in writing within ten (10) days of receipt of the Company’s
Calculation if it disagrees with said calculation.
If the Reinsurer agrees with the Company’s Calculation, it will pay any amounts due to the Company
within twenty (20) days of receipt of the Company’s Calculation.
If the Reinsurer disagrees with the Company’s Calculation, at the time of so notifying the Company,
it will provide the Company with its calculation of Reinsurer’s Obligations (the “Reinsurer’s
Calculation”). Within ten (10) days of the date that such notice is received by the Company, the
parties will endeavor to agree upon the selection of an independent actuary to determine the value
of all remaining Reinsurer’s Obligations under this Agreement, such selection to be contingent upon
said actuary’s written confirmation to both parties of his/her ability to perform the review and provide
an opinion of the value of all remaining Reinsurer’s Obligations under this Agreement within thirty
(30) days of receipt of all appropriate documentation from the Company.
If the parties cannot agree upon an independent actuary within said ten (10) day period, each will,
within ten (10) days thereafter, provide the other party with the names of two independent actuaries
who are members of the American Academy of Actuaries (AAA) or fellows of the Institute and
Faculty of Actuaries (IFA) or of another actuarial society recognised by the AAA or IFA as having
equivalent status, and within five (5) days thereafter, each will strike the name of one of the other
party’s independent actuaries and thereafter select the independent actuary by drawing the name of
one of the two remaining independent actuaries from a hat. If either party fails to name its
independent actuaries within the time period set forth above or otherwise fails to comply with any of
the procedures, conditions or deadlines set forth above, the other party will be entitled to select the
independent actuary to determine the remaining Reinsurer’s Obligations.
The cost of said independent actuary will be borne by the Reinsurer.
The independent actuary will determine the value of all remaining Reinsurer’s Obligations under this
Agreement within thirty (30) days of receipt of all appropriate documentation from the Company and
will notify the parties of such determination in writing, which determination will be binding on both
parties. The calculation of Reinsurer’s Obligations by the independent actuary will take into account
adjustment for net present value based upon the three month LIBOR rate effective as of the date of
notice of termination date.
For the purposes of determining the value of the remaining Reinsurer’s Obligations, the independent
actuary will determine the point estimate which is the actuary’s best estimate of the remaining
liabilities of the Reinsurer under this Agreement.
If the independent actuary fails to determine the remaining Reinsurer’s Obligations within the thirty
(30) day period, the Reinsurer will, within ten (10) days following the end of said thirty (30) day
period, provide the reinsured company(ies) with a Letter(s) of Credit (or other form of security
acceptable to the reinsured company) that meets the reinsured company’s regulatory requirements
from a bank and in a form acceptable to the Company in an amount equal to the Company’s
Calculation. A Letter(s) of Credit will be issued to each reinsured company owed balances by the
Reinsurer under this Agreement in the amount listed in the Company’s Calculations. Said Letter(s) of
Credit will be released upon final payment of the remaining Reinsurer’s Obligations by the Reinsurer.
The Reinsurer will pay the amount determined by the independent actuary to be all remaining
Reinsurer’s Obligations under this Agreement within ten (10) days of receipt of such determination.
Full payment by the Reinsurer, which payment has been received by the Company, will constitute a
complete and final release of both parties in respect of any liability arising from the Reinsurer’s
participation under this Agreement.
Taxes The Company will pay all taxes (except federal excise tax, FATCA and Australian withholding
tax, if applicable) on premiums reported to the Reinsurer under this Agreement.
Third Party Beneficiary/No Third Party Rights This Agreement is solely between the Company and
the Reinsurer hereon. Nothing herein will in any manner create any obligations or establish any
rights in favour of any third parties or any persons not parties to this Agreement except as provided
in the Insolvency Article and in the Reinsurance Credit; Reinsurance Security Article.
Time-Bar The Reinsurer will not assert any defense based on time bar, statute of limitation, laches
or any other defense based on the passage of time in relation to any claim or loss submitted by the
Company.
Offset The Company and the Reinsurer may offset any balance or amount due from one party to the
other under this Agreement or any other reinsurance agreement of any kind heretofore or hereafter
entered into between the Company and the Reinsurer wherein the Company was or is acting as the
ceding insurer and the Reinsurer was or is acting as the assuming reinsurer. If the Company is
comprised of more than one entity, offset will only be permitted between the entity owed or owing
any balance and the Reinsurer. In the event of insolvency of either the Company or the Reinsurer,
offset will only be permitted in accordance with Section 7427 of the New York Insurance Law so far
as applicable, and provided that if the Company is comprised of more than one entity then the
general right of offset in this Article will not be affected in respect of any entity that is not insolvent.
Where the Company is authorized under the Insurance Companies Act (Canada) to insure in
Canada risks, for the purpose of this Article, the branch of a Company in Canada will be considered
as a party separate and distinct from the Company and the right of offset provided for in this Article
will belong to and be applied against that branch as though it were a separate and distinct party.
Federal Terrorism Excess Recoveries
Should the financial assistance actually paid to the Company pursuant to TRIA (as defined below)
for acts of terrorism covered by this Agreement combined with the Company's total private-sector
reinsurance recoveries for such acts of terrorism subject to TRIA exceed the amount of insured
losses paid by the Company for such acts of terrorism, then the Company will reimburse such
excess amount (the "excess TRIA recovery") to the Reinsurer on a pro-rata basis. Such pro-rata
share will be calculated by dividing the Reinsurer’s payment under this Agreement of insured losses
subject to TRIA for the period of this Agreement by the Company's total private-sector reinsurance
recoveries arising from such acts of terrorism covered under the Act during the period of this
Agreement, and multiplying the result by the excess TRIA recovery.
For the purposes of this Article, "TRIA" is understood to be the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002,
as amended by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005, the Terrorism Risk Insurance
Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 and the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization
Act of 2015, as amended or replaced ("TRIA" or the "Act"). In addition, all references to "financial
assistance actually paid to the Company", "acts of terrorism covered by this Agreement", "private-
sector reinsurance recoveries", and "insured losses paid by the Company" are understood to apply
only in respect of the classes of business covered hereunder.
Payment will be made as promptly as possible after the Company's receipt of any recovery in excess
of its insured losses. The Company will provide the Reinsurer with all necessary data respecting the
transactions covered under this Article. Such payment to the Reinsurer will apply unless disallowed
by the U.S. Department of the Treasury in accordance with the provisions of TRIA.
The intent of this provision is that to the extent the Company makes recoveries under the Act that
relate to specific claims affecting this Agreement, a proportionate amount of the excess TRIA
recovery from the Act will be returned to the Reinsurer hereunder. Allocation of excess TRIA
recoveries under the Act back to individual claims hereunder will be made in the Company’s
reasonable judgment; however, it is recognized that where multiple lines of business/multiple
agreements/multiple risk-bearing entities within the companies included in the definition of
"Company" and other affiliated companies are involved, it may not be possible to allocate excess
TRIA recoveries under the Act on a straight pro-rata basis. The allocation of excess TRIA
recoveries will be made separately for each payment to the Company under the Act, and not on the
aggregate of payments for any one calendar year basis.
EU Contract Continuity LMA5284 1)Subject to paragraph 2) (below), the occurrence of an event
associated with membership of the European Union or economic or monetary union in the European
Union will not have the effect of:
i)terminating; or
ii)altering or invalidating any term of or discharging or excusing performance under; or
iii)giving any party a unilateral right to alter or terminate;
this Agreement.
2)If, as a consequence of an event associated with membership of the European Union or economic
or monetary union in the European Union, any participating Reinsurer is no longer permitted by
applicable law or regulation to perform any part of this Agreement:
i) where possible, any terms of this Agreement which conflict with applicable laws or regulations are
amended to conform to the minimum requirements of such laws or regulations, failing which;
ii)such part (which the Reinsurer is unable to perform) will be automatically terminated between that
Reinsurer and the Company with effect from the date that the Reinsurer is no longer permitted to
perform this Agreement. Within fourteen (14) days of such termination the relevant Reinsurer will
return any paid but unearned premium, which will be calculated as expressly provided in the relevant
cancellation or termination provisions of this Agreement or, if there are no such cancellation or
termination provisions, on a pro-rata basis for the time on risk. Unless otherwise provided, if any
claim has been notified under this Agreement at or prior to the time and date of termination, the
premium will be deemed to be fully earned and no return premium will be due.
3)For the purposes of this Agreement, an “event associated with membership of the European Union
or economic or monetary union in the European Union” includes, without limitation, each (and any
combination) of the following events:
i)the withdrawal from the European Union by any one or more members of the European Union
(Member States); or
ii)the withdrawal from legal tender of the Euro; or
iii)the withdrawal from the Euro by one or more Member State(s); or
iv)the replacement of the Euro by any alternative single or unified currency by two or more Member
States (whether or not they remain members of the European Union) or the introduction of a new
currency by a Member State (whether or not it remains a member of the European Union).
Other Reinsurance 1. The Company will be permitted to carry facultative reinsurance, recoveries
under will inure solely to the benefit of the Company.
2. The Company will be permitted to carry treaty reinsurance, including catastrophe and/or clash
covers and whole account corporate covers, recoveries under which will inure solely to the benefit of
the Company and be entirely disregarded in applying all of the provisions of this Agreement.
3. The amount of the Reinsurer's liability hereunder in respect of any loss or losses will not be
increased by reason of the inability of the Company to collect from any other reinsurer(s), whether
specific or general, any amounts which may have become due from such reinsurer(s), whether such
inability arises from the insolvency of such other reinsurer(s) or otherwise.
Confidentiality A. The Reinsurer hereby acknowledges that the documents, records, information and
data provided to it or its representatives or agents by the Company, whether directly or through an
authorized agent, in connection with the placement of, or their participation in this Agreement or in
connection with any review of the Company’s files, records or documents pursuant to the terms of
any provisions of this Agreement ("Confidential Information") are confidential to the Company.
Confidential Information does not include documents, records, information or data that the Reinsurer
can show:
1. are publicly known or have become publicly known through no unauthorized act of the Reinsurer
or any third party associated with the Reinsurer; or
2. have been rightfully received by the Reinsurer from a third person without obligation of
confidentiality; or
3. were in the Reinsurer’s possession on a non-confidential basis prior to receipt from the Company.
B. Absent the prior written consent of the Company, the Reinsurer will not disclose any Confidential
Information to any third parties, including any affiliated companies, except:
1. when required to disclose such Confidential Information to retrocessionaires subject to the
business ceded to this Agreement; or
2. when required to disclose such Confidential Information to regulators performing an audit of the
Reinsurer's records and/or financial condition; or
3. when required to disclose such Confidential Information to external auditors performing an audit of
the Reinsurer's records in the normal course of business; or
4. on a “need to know” basis, to its officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives and
professional advisors, and to any of its affiliates solely for administration, risk management, claims
handling and accounting purposes.
The Company agrees that, subject to the terms of this Article, the Confidential Information may be
stored on the Reinsurer’s group-wide IT systems.
C. The Reinsurer agrees to advise all parties who receive any Confidential Information under
paragraph B that such information is subject to the terms and conditions of this Article. The
Reinsurer is responsible for any breach of this Article by any such party.
D. The Reinsurer agrees not to use any Confidential Information for any purposes except those
related solely to the performance of its obligations or enforcement of its rights under this Agreement
or for administration, risk management and accounting purposes relating to the subject reinsurance
business.
E. Notwithstanding the above, in the event that the Reinsurer is required by court order, other legal
process or any regulatory authority to release or disclose any or all of the Confidential Information,
the Reinsurer agrees, to the extent permitted by law, to provide the Company with written notice of
the same at least ten (10) days prior to such release or disclosure and to use all its commercially
reasonable efforts to assist the Company in maintaining the confidentiality provided for in this Article.
If a protective order or other remedy is not obtained and a waiver hereunder is not received, the
Reinsurer will disclose only that portion of the Confidential Information which is legally required and
will use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain assurances from the recipients of any or all of
the Confidential Information that confidential treatment will be accorded to such Confidential
Information.
F. At the request of the Company, the Reinsurer will either return the Confidential Information to the
Company or destroy the same and will not retain any such copies of such materials in whole or in
part except that Reinsurer will be entitled to retain that portion of the Confidential Information which it
requires for legal, regulatory or internal compliance purposes, which will continue to be treated as
confidential on the terms of this Article.
G. The Reinsurer and the Company agree and understand that, notwithstanding any pending or
future disputes between them or any claims relating to or arising from such disputes, the provisions
of this Article are not intended to create a license to use such Confidential Information and should
not be construed as a waiver of any confidentiality or privilege over such material for any other
purpose and such confidentiality and privileges are expressly reserved.
H. Any breach or threatened breach of this Article will constitute a breach that might cause
irreparable injury, not readily measured in money, and for which the Company, without waiving any
other remedies or rights at law or in equity, will be entitled to injunctive relief or other equitable relief.
Any such right or remedy and any and all other rights or remedies provided for herein will be
cumulative and not exclusive and in addition to any and all other rights or remedies which the
Company may have under this Agreement or otherwise.
I. The Reinsurer will comply with all applicable data protection laws/regulations with respect to the
handling and/or processing of Confidential Information, including personally identifiable information,
in connection with this Agreement and will ensure that any third parties to whom any Confidential
Information is shared have appropriate information security safeguards in place consistent with
applicable laws/regulations.
Extra Contractual Obligations, Late Payment Liability and Excess Limits Liability This Agreement will
protect the Company, within the terms and conditions of this Agreement, where the Ultimate Net
Loss includes any Extra Contractual Obligations and/or Late Payment Liability and/or Excess Limits
Liability.
The term "Extra Contractual Obligations" is defined as those liabilities not covered under any other
provision of this Agreement and which arise from the handling of any claim on business covered
hereunder, such liabilities arising because of, but not limited to, the following: failure by the
Company to settle within the Policy limit, or by reason of alleged or actual negligence, fraud or bad
faith in rejecting an offer of settlement, or in the preparation of the defense or in the trial of any action
against its insured or reinsured, or in the preparation or prosecution of an appeal consequent upon
such action.
“Late Payment Liability” is defined as those costs (including but not limited to the costs of defending
any claim made against the Company), liabilities, damages, fines, penalties and any interest payable
which arise due to an alleged or actual failure by the Company to pay the sums due in respect of any
claim on business covered hereunder within a statutorily-required period or a reasonable time.
"Excess Limits Liability" is defined as any amount payable in excess of the Company's Policy limit,
such liabilities arising because of, but not limited to, alleged or actual negligence, fraud, or bad faith
in failing to settle and/or rejecting a settlement within the policy limit, or in the preparation of the
defense or in the trial of any action against the insured or reinsured, or in the preparation or
prosecution of an appeal consequent upon such action. Excess Limits Liability is any amount for
which the Company would have been contractually liable to pay had it not been for the limit of the
reinsured policy.
The date on which any Extra Contractual Obligation and/or Late Payment Liability and/or Excess
Limits Liability is incurred by the Company will be deemed, in all circumstances, to be the date of the
original loss.
However, this Article will not apply where the loss has been incurred solely due to the fraud of a
member of the Board of Directors or a corporate officer of the Company acting individually,
collectively, or in collusion with any individual or corporation or any other organization or party
involved in the presentation, defense, or settlement of any claim covered hereunder.
With respect to any New York domiciled Company only, in no event will coverage for Extra
Contractual Obligations be provided under this Article for any risks located in the State of New York
to the extent that such coverage is not permitted under New York law.
Survival of the Agreement Notwithstanding the expiration or termination of this Agreement (or any
Reinsurer’s participation) as provided in this Article or elsewhere in this Agreement, the provisions of
this Agreement will survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement and will continue to apply
to all obligations and liabilities of the parties incurred hereunder, including but not limited to all rights
to pursue any course of action as expressed in any Article of this Agreement. It is the express intent
of the parties that all such obligations and liabilities will be fully performed and discharged and all
rights conferred under the terms of this Agreement will survive the termination or expiration of this
Agreement.
Duty of Fair Presentation 1. In the event of a breach of the Duty of Fair Presentation or Duty of
Disclosure (whichever is applicable) by the Company (or its agent) which is proven by the Reinsurer
to be fraudulent, deliberate or reckless:
(i) if the breach is before this Agreement is entered into, the Reinsurer may (a) avoid the Agreement;
(b) reject all claims; and (c) retain all premiums paid; or
(ii) if the breach is in relation to a variation of this Agreement, the Reinsurer (a) may treat the
Agreement as having been terminated with effect from the time that the variation was made; and (b)
need not return any of the premiums paid.
2. It is agreed that where the Company’s (or its agent’s) breach of the Duty of Disclosure or Duty of
Fair Presentation is not fraudulent, deliberate or reckless, the Reinsurer irrevocably waives all and
any rights and remedies it has, or may have, as a result of the Company’s (or its agent’s) breach of
the Duty of Disclosure or Duty of Fair Presentation.
3. For the purposes of this Article:
(i) Where this Agreement is governed by the laws of England and Wales, the “Duty of Fair
Presentation” means the duty imposed by section 3(1) of the Insurance Act 2015. A breach of the
Duty of Fair Presentation is “deliberate or reckless” if the insured (a) knew that it was in breach of
the duty of fair presentation; or (b) did not care whether or not it was in breach of that duty;
(ii) Where this Agreement is governed by New York law, the “Duty of Disclosure” means the duty of
the Company to disclose to the Reinsurer all facts that materially affect the risk of which the
Company was or should have been aware would have affected the Reinsurer’s decision and of
which the Reinsurer had no reason to be aware.
Cancellation Notwithstanding any other provisions within this Agreement, the Company, at its sole
option, may, by providing written notice to the Reinsurer, cancel this Agreement to take effect as at
any date specified by the Company (the “Cancellation Date”), being not less than thirty (30) days
after the date of the notice of cancellation. Risks that have been ceded prior to the Cancellation Date
are covered hereon until their natural expiry.
Fiscal & Regulatory Tax Payable by Reinsurer(s): As Applicable.
Country of Origin: UK.
US Classification: Non Regulated
Overseas Broker: Direct Reinsured.
Allocation of Premium to Coding: Not Applicable.
Allocation of premium to year of account: Not Applicable.
Regulatory Client Classification: Reinsurance.
Intermediary Remuneration and Deductions Fee Payable by Client: No
Total Brokerage 2.5%on OGP
Other Deductions From Premium: None.
Security Details The participation of the subscribing Reinsurers hereunder is contingent upon the
following:
Reinsurers’ Liability: Reinsurer’s Liability Clause ~ LMA3333 (Reinsurer’s Liability Several Not Joint)
The liability of a Reinsurer under this Contract is several and not joint with other Reinsurers party to
this Contract. A Reinsurer is liable only for the proportion of liability it has underwritten. A Reinsurer
is not jointly liable for the proportion of liability underwritten by any other Reinsurer. Nor is a
Reinsurer otherwise responsible for any liability of any other Reinsurer that may underwrite this
Contract.
The proportion of liability under this Contract underwritten by a Reinsurer (or, in the case of a Lloyd’s
syndicate, the total of the proportions underwritten by all the members of the syndicate taken
together) is shown next to its stamp. This is subject always to the provision concerning “signing
down” below.
In the case of a Lloyd’s syndicate, each member of the syndicate (rather than the syndicate itself) is
a Reinsurer. Each member has underwritten a proportion of the total shown for the syndicate (that
total itself being the total of the proportions underwritten by all the members of the syndicate taken
together). The liability of each member of the syndicate is several and not joint with other members.
A member is liable only for that member’s proportion. A member is not jointly liable for any other
member’s proportion. Nor is any member otherwise responsible for any liability of any other
Reinsurer that may underwrite this Contract. The business address of each member is Lloyd’s, One
Lime Street, London, EC3M 7HA. The identity of each member of a Lloyd’s syndicate and their
respective proportion may be obtained by writing to Market Services, Lloyd’s, at the above address.
Proportion of liability
Unless there is signing down (see below) the proportion of liability under this Contract underwritten
by each Reinsurer (or, in the case of a Lloyd’s syndicate, the total of the proportions underwritten by
all the members of the syndicate taken together) is shown next to its stamp and is referred to as its
“written line”.
Where this Contract permits, written lines, or certain written lines, may be adjusted (“signed”). In that
case a schedule is to be appended to this Contract to show the definitive proportion of liability under
this Contract underwritten by each Reinsurer (or, in the case of a Lloyd’s syndicate, the total of the
proportions underwritten by all the members of the syndicate taken together). A definitive proportion
(or, in the case of a Lloyd’s syndicate, the total of the proportions underwritten by all the members of
a Lloyd’s syndicate taken together) is referred to as a “signed line”. The signed lines shown in the
schedule will prevail over the written lines unless a proven error in calculation has occurred.
Although reference is made at various points in this clause to “this Contract” in the singular, where
the circumstances require the references should be read as a reference to Contracts in the plural.
Order Hereon: Section A: 70% Quota Share of whole being equal to USD 70,000,000 Section B:
90% Quota Share of whole being equal to USD 45,000,000
(to be inserted by the Intermediary)
Basis Of Written Lines: Percentage of whole.
Basis Of Signed Lines: Percentage of whole.
Signing Provisions: In the event that the written lines hereon exceed 100% of the Order Hereon, any
lines written “to stand” will be allocated in full and all other lines will be signed down in equal
proportions so that the aggregate signed lines are equal to 100% of the Order Hereon without further
agreement of any of the Reinsurers.
However:
a)
in the event that the placement of the order is not completed by the commencement date of the
Period then all lines written by that date will be signed in full;
b)
the Reinsured may elect for the disproportionate signing of Reinsurers’ lines, without further specific
agreement of Reinsurers, providing that any such variation is made prior to the commencement date
of the Period, and that lines written “to stand” may not be varied without the documented agreement
of those Reinsurers;
c)
the signed lines resulting from the application of the above provisions can be varied, before or after
the commencement date of the Period, by the documented agreement of the Reinsured and all
Reinsurers whose lines are to be varied. The variation to the agreements will take effect only when
all such Reinsurers have agreed, with the resulting variation in signed lines commencing from the
date set out in that agreement.
The signed line will be entered on the respective Reinsurer signing page by the Intermediary and
shall be notified to the Reinsurer.
Written Lines: In a co-reinsurance placement, following Reinsurers may, but are not obliged to,
follow the premium charged by the Slip Leader.
Reinsurers may not seek to guarantee for themselves terms as favourable as those which others
subsequently achieve during the placement.
Signing Pages: This Agreement incorporates the following:
1.
A Reinsurer Signing Page, for each Reinsurer participating in this Agreement, signature of which
binds the Reinsurer and the Reinsured to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement.
Where the Reinsurer provides acceptance of a share by alternative correspondence, this shall
constitute their formal signature until superseded by the signing page.
For the purposes of the application of Reinsurer’s Liability Clause ~ LMA3333, each Reinsurer’s
signed line is recorded on the respective Reinsurer Signing Page and not in a separate schedule
appended to t his Agreement.
2.
A Reinsured Signing Page, signature of which provides confirmation by them that they agree to the
terms and conditions of this Agreement. This shall not override the binding nature of the provisions
of point 1.