RISK DETAILS
UNIQUE MARKET
REFERENCE B080116537H18
TYPE EXCESS OF LOSS REINSURANCE CONTRACT.
REINSURED
PREAMBLE For and in consideration of the Premium to be paid by the Reinsured to the
Reinsurers, the Reinsurers agree to indemnify the Reinsured, in accordance
always with the terms and conditions of this Reinsurance Contract. The titles
allocated to the Provisions of this Reinsurance Contract are intended solely
for the convenience of reference and will not affect the meaning,
interpretation, construction or effect of this Reinsurance Contract.
PERIOD Period Clause (LSW 301A).
Losses occurring during the period 15 February 2018 to 14 February 2019
both days inclusive.
CLASS OF
BUSINESS To cover all business emanating from the Reinsured's participation in the
Cathedral Syndicate 3010 Aviation Hull War Consorta.
Reinsuring Clause (LSW307A).
Layer One:
Priority:
USD/CAD 2,000,000 or GBP 1,250,000 or
EUR 1,500,000 each and every loss.
Indemnity: USD/CAD 3,000,000 or GBP 1,875,000 or EUR 2,250,000
each and every loss.
Layer Two:
Priority: USD/CAD 5,000,000 or GBP 3,125,000 or EUR 3,750,000
each and every loss.
Indemnity: USD/CAD 10,000,000 or GBP 6,250,000 or EUR 7,500,000
each and every loss.
LR / Date created 18/01/18 Risk Details Page 1
REINSTATEMENT
PROVISIONS
Reinstatement Clause (LSW 308A).
Layer One:
One full Reinstatement at 270.456% additional premium.
Layer Two:
One full Reinstatement at 270.456% additional premium.
TERRITORIAL
SCOPE
Losses wheresoever occurring.
CONDITIONS
Each Layer shall be understood to be a separate Contract, and therefore,
reference to ‘Contract’ contained in this document shall mean the Layer to
which the clause/provision is being applied.
Non-Renewal Clause (LSW 305).
Ultimate Net Loss Clause (LSW 314A).
Notification of Claims Clause (LSW 316).
Currency Conversion Clause: Pounds Sterling. (LSW 317A).
Amendments and Alterations Clause (LSW 319).
Errors and Omissions Clause (LSW 321).
Documentation Clause (LSW 322).
(Willis Limited, 51 Lime Street, London EC3M 7DQ).
Extra Contractual Obligations Clause (LSW 327).
War Risks Hijacking Clause A (Hull War included) (As attached)
Or War Risks Hijacking Clause B (Hull War included) (As attached) at the
Reinsured discretion following each loss.
Inspection of Documents Clause (LSW 818A).
Euro Contract Continuity Clause (LSW 1820).
Aviation Date Recognition (Reinsurance) Clause (LSW 1036).
Agreed that the condition precedent contained in paragraph 5 of this Clause is
waived by Reinsurers.
Contract Re-Denomination Clause (LSW 1156).
Downgrade Clause (LSW 1571).
(Standard & Poor: A minus Bests: A minus).
Insolvency Clause (IUA-G86).
LR / Date created 18/01/18
Risk Details Page 2
UMR B
Reinsured
Type Excess of Loss Reinsurance Contract
Loss Settlements Clause (As attached).
Letter of Credit / Outstanding Claims Advance Clause (As attached).
Nuclear and Radioactive Contamination Exclusion Clause (As
attached). Notice Relating to Sanctions and Trade Restrictions (As
attached).
CHOICE OF LAW
AND JURISDICTION
This Reinsurance Contract shall be governed by and construed in accordance
with the laws of England and Wales and, except as provided for in the
Arbitration Clause contained herein, the English courts shall have exclusive
jurisdiction.
Arbitration Clause (LSW
323). (Seat of Arbitration:
London. Laws of: England
and Wales. Appointor:
Chairman of Lloyd's.)
ARBITRATION
PREMIUM
Layer One:
Premium Clause (LSW 311A).
Rate: 7.518% of the Reinsured's Net Premium Income accounted for during
the period 15 February 2018 to 14 February 2019 both days inclusive in
respect of the business protected hereunder.
Minimum Premium: USD 135,327
Deposit Premium: USD 135,327
Deposit Premium split: 95% in USD being USD 128,561
4% in GBP being GBP 3,383
and 1% in EUR being EUR
1,128
Rates of exchange: GBP 1 equal to USD/CAD 1.60 equal to EUR 1.20
Layer Two:
Premium Clause (LSW 311A).
Rate: 6.371% of the Reinsured's Net Premium Income accounted for during
the period 15 February 2018 to 14 February 2019 both days inclusive in
respect of the business protected hereunder.
Minimum Premium: USD 114,673
Deposit Premium: USD 114,673
Deposit Premium split: 95% in USD being USD 108,939
4% in GBP being GBP 2,867
and 1% in EUR being EUR 956
LR / Date created 18/01/18
Risk Details Page
3
UMR B
Reinsured
Type Excess of Loss Reinsurance Contract
Rates of exchange: GBP 1 equal to USD/CAD 1.60 equal to EUR 1.20
In respect of both layers separately Premium payable:
10% at 15 February 2018 20% at 15 May 2018 30% at 15 August
2018 40% at 15 November 2018
In the event of paid losses exceeding paid premiums (including reinstatement
premium) hereon, an amount of premium equal to the deficit is to be paid
simultaneously, up to a maximum of the amount as provided for under the
Premium and Reinstatement Provisions sections hereon.
The Reinsured is entitled not to collect losses otherwise recoverable.
LOSS ADDITIONAL
PREMIUM: Applicable to both layers separately
In the event of a paid loss(es) to this Contract a Loss Additional Premium shall
become payable in accordance with the following calculation subject to a
maximum Loss Additional Premium equivalent to the applicable premium
defined in the PREMIUM section multiplied by 170.456%.
Amount of Paid Loss(es)
■ x “Premium A” = Loss Additional Premium
The applicable Indemnity herein
For the purposes of this clause “Premium A” shall be the sum of the
applicable premium defined in the PREMIUM section multiplied by 170.456%
The Reinsured is entitled not to collect losses otherwise recoverable.
PAYMENT TERMS None.
LOSS RESERVE AND
TAXES As detailed under CONDITIONS.
BY
REINSURED AND
ADMINISTERED BY
REINSURER(S) None, or as may be subsequently required by applicable legislation.
TAXES PAYABLE BY
REINSURERS AND
ADMINISTERED BY
REINSURED OR
THEIR AGENT None, or as may be subsequently required by applicable legislation.
UMR : B
Reinsured :
Type : Excess of Loss Reinsurance Contract
RECORDING,
TRANSMITTING AND
STORING
INFORMATION Where Willis Limited maintains risk and claim data / information / documents
Willis Limited may hold data / information / documents electronically.
REINSURER
CONTRACT
DOCUMENTATION This Contract document details the contract terms entered into by the
Reinsurers and constitutes the contract document.
Any further documentation changing this Contract which has been
appropriately agreed, shall form the evidence of such change(s).
LR / Date created 18/01/18 Risk Details Page 5
UMR : B
Reinsured :
Type : Excess of Loss Reinsurance Contract
WAR RISKS HIJACKING CLAUSE A (HULL WAR INCLUDED)
For the purposes of this Contract clause AVN.48B shall be understood to mean clause AVN.48B or
any similar clause used in substitution thereof. The clause applicable hereto shall be that in use in the
policy issued by the Reinsured under which the claim falls or, in the absence of such clause, that then
in current use.
Part 1. HIJACKING CLAUSE (ALL LOSSES)
As regards losses arising from perils as stipulated in paragraph (g) of clause AVN.48B (whether or not
such losses are actually paid because of the coverage afforded by paragraph (g)), the Priority and
Indemnity hereon shall be applied to the total of all losses paid by the Reinsured which are covered
hereunder and which arise out of or follow from each act of hijack separately, and the time of the loss
shall be taken as the time the hijacker first makes his presence known.
Part 2. DEFINITION OF COVERAGE FOR CERTAIN PERILS
As regards losses arising from perils as stipulated in clause AVN.48B (whether or not such losses are
actually paid because of the coverage afforded by clause AVN.48B) other than losses covered by the
provisions of Part 1 above, for the purposes of this Contract the term "any one event" shall be
understood to mean -
"All such losses sustained by the Reinsured which occur during any one period of 24 consecutive
hours and within an area of radius 10 miles which arise from one of the perils stipulated in clause
AVN.48B".
The Reinsured may select both the point from which the 10 mile radius applies and also the moment
from which the period of 24 hours shall be deemed to commence. No area, however, may be selected
which overlaps another area selected for the purposes of making a recovery hereunder in respect of
losses occurring at the same time. No period of 24 hours may commence earlier than the date and
time of the happening of the first recorded individual loss to the Reinsured (in respect of the claim
under consideration) nor prior to the inception of this Contract. Furthermore in respect of any one
location already included in a selected area, no period of 24 hours may commence prior to the expiry
of any previously selected 24 hour period.
Notwithstanding the foregoing it is a condition of this Contract that the perils stipulated in paragraph
(b) of clause AVN.48B are excluded entirely from the protection of this Contract other than as provided
by the LSW555D policy forms, including subsequent versions thereof of equivalent policy forms
thereof
UMR : B
Reinsured :
Type : Excess of Loss Reinsurance Contract
WAR RISKS HIJACKING CLAUSE B (HULL WAR INCLUDED)
For the purposes of this Contract clause AVN.48B shall be understood to mean clause AVN.48B or
any similar clause used in substitution thereof. The clause applicable hereto shall be that in use in the
policy issued by the Reinsured under which the claim falls or, in the absence of such clause, that then
in current use.
Part 1. HIJACKING (LOSSES IN FLIGHT) CLAUSE
As regards losses to or in Aircraft in flight (as hereinafter defined) arising from perils as stipulated in
paragraph (g) of clause AVN.48B (whether or not such losses are actually paid because of the
coverage afforded by paragraph (g)), the Priority and Indemnity hereon shall be applied to the total of
all losses paid by the Reinsured which are covered hereunder which occur whilst such aircraft is in
flight and which arise out of or follow from each act of hijack separately. For the purposes of this part
the time of the loss shall be taken as the time the hijacker first makes his presence known.
For the purposes of this clause a "flight" shall be deemed to begin when the aircraft moves forward
when taking off and shall be deemed to end when the machine comes to rest after making contact with
the ground and/or water.
Part 2. DEFINITION OF COVERAGE FOR CERTAIN PERILS
As regards losses arising from perils as stipulated in clause AVN.48B (whether or not such losses are
actually paid because of the coverage afforded by clause AVN.48B) other than losses covered by the
provisions of Part 1 above, for the purposes of this Contract the term "any one event" shall be
understood to mean -
"All such losses sustained by the Reinsured which occur during any one period of 24 consecutive
hours and within an area of radius 10 miles which arise from one of the perils stipulated in clause
AVN.48B".
The Reinsured may select both the point from which the 10 mile radius applies and also the moment
from which the period of 24 hours shall be deemed to commence. No area, however, may be selected
which overlaps another area selected for the purposes of making a recovery hereunder in respect of
losses occurring at the same time. No period of 24 hours may commence earlier than the date and
time of the happening of the first recorded individual loss to the Reinsured (in respect of the claim
under consideration) nor prior to the inception of this Contract. Furthermore in respect of any one
location already included in a selected area, no period of 24 hours may commence prior to the expiry
cf any previously selected 24 hour period.
Notwithstanding the foregoing it is a condition of this Contract that the perils stipulated in paragraph (b)
of clause AVN.48B are excluded entirely from the protection of this Contract other than as provided by
the LSW555D policy forms, including subsequent versions thereof of equivalent policy forms thereof
LR / Date created 18/01/18 Risk Details Page 7
UMR : B
Reinsured :
Type : Excess of Loss Reinsurance Contract
LOSS SETTLEMENTS CLAUSE
All loss settlements by the Reinsured including compromise settlements and the establishment of Funds
for the settlement of losses shall be binding upon the Reinsurers, providing such settlements are within the
terms and conditions of the original policies and/or contracts (or as provided for in the EXTRA
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS CLAUSE and/or the ULTIMATE NET LOSS CLAUSE) and within the
terms and conditions of this Contract.
LR / Date created 18/01/18 Risk Details Page 8
UMR : B
Reinsured :
Type : Excess of Loss Reinsurance Contract
LETTER OF CREDIT / OUTSTANDING CLAIMS ADVANCE CLAUSE
The Reinsured shall have the option to invoke either of the following provisions:
Letter of Credit
It is the intention of the parties hereto that this provision shall set forth the terms and conditions under
which any letter(s) of credit required hereunder shall be held.
The Reinsured shall forward to the Reinsurers a statement of the Reinsurers' share of Losses.
For the purposes of this letter of credit provision the term "Losses" shall mean the sum of all losses paid
and allocated loss adjustment expenses paid by the Reinsured but not yet recovered from the Reinsurers,
plus reserves for losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses outstanding as determined by the
Reinsured, however losses incurred but not reported shall not be included.
Within fourteen (14) days of receipt of such statement the Reinsurers shall provide the Reinsured with a
"clean", unconditional and irrevocable letter of credit, in the amount specified in the statement submitted,
with terms and bank acceptable to the Reinsured.
The Reinsurers hereby agree that the letter of credit will provide for automatic extension of the letter of
credit without amendment for one year from the date of expiration of said letter or any future expiration
date unless sixty (60) days prior to any expiration the issuing bank shall notify the Reinsured by registered
mail that the issuing bank elects not to consider the letter of credit renewed for any additional period.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Contract, the Reinsured may draw upon such credit at any
time for the following purposes only:
a) To pay the Reinsurers' share or to reimburse the Reinsured for the Reinsurers’ share of any
such Losses as stipulated in the statement submitted by the Reinsured to the Reinsurers.
b) In the event that the Reinsurer is insolvent, in liquidation (provisional, compulsory, voluntary
or otherwise), receivership (administrative or otherwise), rehabilitation, conservation, the
subject of a winding up petition or has a scheme of arrangement proposed in relation to it:
If the Reinsured has received effective notice of non-renewal of the letter of credit, the
Reinsurers’ liability remains unliquidated and undischarged thirty (30) days prior to the
expiring date of the letter of credit and the Reinsurers have not provided the Reinsured with
an alternative “clean”, unconditional and irrevocable letter of credit with terms and bank
acceptable to the Reinsured then the Reinsured may withdraw the balance of such credit.
The Reinsured shall deposit the amount so withdrawn in a separate account in the name of
the Reinsured in any bank or trust company and apart from its general assets, in trust
nevertheless for such uses and purposes specified above as may remain executory after
such withdrawal and for any period after such expiry date.
c) In the event that the Reinsurer is not insolvent, in liquidation (provisional, compulsory,
voluntary or otherwise), receivership (administrative or otherwise), rehabilitation,
conservation, the subject of a winding up petition and does not have a scheme of
arrangement proposed in relation to it:
If the Reinsured has received effective notice of non-renewal of the letter of credit, the
Reinsurers’ liability remains unliquidated and undischarged thirty (30) days prior to the
expiring date of the letter of credit and the Reinsurers have not provided the Reinsured with
an alternative “clean”, unconditional and irrevocable letter of credit with terms and bank
acceptable to the Reinsured then the Reinsured and Reinsurers shall negotiate to find a
mutually agreeable alternative to providing a letter of credit. If the parties are unable to
mutually agree an alternative then the Reinsured may withdraw the balance of such credit.
The Reinsured shall deposit the amount so withdrawn in a separate account in the name of
the Reinsured in any bank or trust company and apart from its general assets, in trust
UMR : B
Reinsured :
Type : Excess of Loss Reinsurance Contract
nevertheless
for such uses and purposes specified above as may remain executory after such withdrawal
and for any period after such expiry date.
In the event that the letter of credit is drawn upon in accordance with the foregoing paragraphs b) and c)
then the Reinsured will account to the relevant Reinsurer on a quarterly basis for any interest actually
earned on the monies in the account described (after deduction of any liability in respect of taxation or any
amount on account of such a liability). However, in the event that the balance of credit held in the bank is
less than the Reinsurers share of Losses then the interest due to the Reinsurer may be withheld until the
balance is increased accordingly.
At quarterly intervals the Reinsured shall prepare a specific statement, for the sole purpose of amending
the letter of credit, of the Reinsurers' shares of any Losses. If the statement shows that the Reinsurers'
shares of Losses exceeds that balance of credit as of the statement date, the Reinsurers shall, within
thirty (30) days after receipt of notice of such excess, secure delivery to the Reinsured of an amendment
of the letter of credit increasing the amount of credit by the amount of such difference. If the statement
shows, however, that the Reinsurers' shares of Losses is less than the balance of credit as of the
statement date, the Reinsured shall, within thirty (30) days after receipt of written request from the
Reinsurers, release such excess credit by agreeing to secure an amendment to the letter of credit
reducing the amount of credit available by the amount of such excess credit.
The bank shall have no responsibility whatsoever in connection with the propriety of withdrawals made by
the Reinsured or the disposition of funds withdrawn, except to assure that withdrawals are made only
upon the order of properly authorised representatives of the Reinsured. The Reinsured shall incur no
obligation to the bank in acting upon the credit, other than as appears in the express terms thereof.
Outstanding Claims Advance
The Reinsured shall forward to the Reinsurers a statement of the Reinsurers' share of Losses.
For the purposes of this Outstanding Claims Advance the term "Losses" shall mean the sum of all losses
paid and allocated loss adjustment expenses paid by the Reinsured but not yet recovered from the
Reinsurers, plus reserves for losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses outstanding as determined
by the Reinsured, however losses incurred but not reported shall not be included.
Within fourteen (14) days of receipt of such statement the Reinsurers shall provide the Reinsured with a
cash reserve (hereinafter called the Outstanding Claims Advance).
The Reinsured will hold any sums paid in respect of an Outstanding Claims Advance in a separate
account with a bank at the Reinsured's discretion and use such sums paid only for the loss for which the
Outstanding Claims Advance was established. However, “Losses” shall exclude any amounts in respect
of incurred but not reported losses.
In the event that Reinsurers are required to provide such Outstanding Claims Advances, the Reinsured
agrees to pay interest to the Reinsurers on the amount of such advance, at a rate calculated quarterly,
based on any interest actually earned on the monies in the account described (after deduction of any
liability in respect of taxation or any amount on account of such a liability). However, in the event that the
balance of credit held is less than the Reinsurers share of Losses then the interest due to the Reinsurer
may be withheld until the balance is increased accordingly. Such interest will be calculated
LR / Date created 18/01/18 Risk Details Page 10 and
paid at the end of each calendar quarter, on the opening balance of Outstanding Claims Advance when
first set up, or the Outstanding Claims Advance amount at the start of such quarter, whichever the later.
The amount of any Outstanding Claims Advance will be adjusted at the same quarterly intervals with any
amount no longer required being returned to Reinsurers within 14 days of such calculation and with any
additional amount being paid to the Reinsured within 14 days of such calculation.
The rights and obligations of the Reinsured and the Reinsurers, as set forth in this Clause, shall not be
UMR : B
Reinsured :
Type : Excess of Loss Reinsurance Contract
diminished in any manner whatsoever by the insolvency of any party hereto.
Nothing contained within this Clause shall impose any greater liability on the part of Reinsurers than would
have attached hereunder if this Clause were not present.
LR / Date created 18/01/18 Risk Details Page 11
UMR : B
Reinsured :
Type : Excess of Loss Reinsurance Contract
NUCLEAR AND RADIOACTIVE CONTAMINATION EXCLUSION CLAUSE
Each policy protected hereunder is deemed to be subject to a:
nuclear exclusion clause and the Aviation Radioactive Contamination Exclusion Clause (General)
AVN38A or its equivalent.
or
Nuclear Risks Exclusion Clause AVN38B or its equivalent.
However, to the extent that there is any conflict of coverage, the foregoing provisions will not apply to any
policy protected hereunder that is written on the basis of coverage provided by the LSW555 policy form,
including subsequent versions thereof or equivalent policy forms thereof.
In the event that the policy is covered under the business protected by this Contract then a special
acceptance shall be automatically made to this Contract in respect of the following:
Insured: et al
Type: Aviation Liability, Personal Accident and Hull All Risks (including Contingent Liability
and Hull All Risks) including War Insurance.
Nuclear Risks Exclusion Clause AVN38B (French equivalent). This exclusion shall not apply with respect
to activities of sales, installation, maintenance and operation of detection and identification equipment in
the airport premises.
As used above:
and/or associated and/or affiliated and/or subsidiary companies and/or joint ventures as declared now in
existence or as may be hereafter constituted or acquired, jointly and severally for their respective rights
and interests and/or as more fully set forth in the Warranty Company policy”.
UMR : B
Reinsured :
Type : Excess of Loss Reinsurance Contract
LR / Date created 18/01/18 Risk Details Page 12
UMR B0
Reinsured
Type Excess of Loss Reinsurance Contract
NOTICE RELATING TO SANCTIONS AND TRADE RESTRICTIONS
1. Where it would be illegal under applicable laws or sanctions or embargoes for Reinsurers to provide
the cover specified in this Contract or any part of such cover, or any other service or benefit, then the
Reinsurers shall only be obliged to provide cover, services or benefits to the extent that, and for such
period as, it is or becomes legally permissible for the Reinsurers to do or to have done so.
2. Where any sum of money falls due from or to Reinsurers under this Contract and where it would be
illegal under applicable laws or sanctions or embargoes for the payment of all or any part of the sum of
money to be made (whether in cash, by transfer, by provision of letters of credit or outstanding claims
advances or by any other form of transfer of other economic asset) at the time it falls due, then the
debtor party shall only be obliged to make payment to the extent that, and at such time as, it is or
becomes legally permissible for the debtor party to do so.
3. In circumstances where paragraphs 1. and/or 2. of this Clause would otherwise apply, but the relevant
laws or sanctions or embargoes allow the Reinsurers to seek authorisation to provide the affected
cover, service or benefit and/or to make or receive the affected payment, then the Reinsurers will take
all reasonable steps to obtain the necessary authorisation required to enable them to make such
payment or provide such cover, service or benefit. In this event the Reinsured will provide to the
Reinsurer all information required by the applicable authorities to obtain the necessary authorisation.
4. Unless and until all such information is provided by the Reinsured to the Reinsurer in accordance with
paragraph 3. and authorization is granted to the Reinsurer by the applicable authorty(ies), then
paragraphs 1. and 2. of this Clause shall continue to apply, and the Reinsurer shall not be required to
make any such payment, or to provide any such cover, service or benefit.
5. In circumstances where paragraphs 1. and/or 2. of this Clause apply and the Reinsured's ultimate net
loss also includes amounts not otherwise affected by paragraphs 1. and/or 2. of this Clause. then to
the extent under the applicable laws or sanctions or embargoes that it is or becomes legally
permissible for the Reinsurers obligations to be determined in such a manner, the Reinsured's ultimate
net loss applicable to this Contract and the proportion of the Indemnity collectible from Reinsurers shall
be determined as follows:
a) the provisions of paragraphs 1. and 2. of this Clause will be disregarded when determining the
Reinsured's ultimate net loss applicable to this Contract; and
b) the proportion of the Indemnity collectible from Reinsurers shall be determined by applying the
percentage that the Reinsured's ultimate net loss from their obligation(s) not otherwise affected
by the provisions of paragraphs 1. and 2. of this Clause bears to the Reinsured's total ultimate
net loss.
If, however, in such circumstances it is not or does not become legally permissible under the
applicable laws or sanctions or embargoes for the Reinsurers obligations to be determined in the
aforementioned manner, then the Reinsured's ultimate net loss applicable to this Contract will only
include the Reinsured's ultimate net loss from their obligation(s) not otherwise affected by the
provisions of paragraphs 1. and 2. of this Clause.
LR / Date created 18/01/18 Risk Details Page 13
UMR : B0
Reinsured :
Type : Excess of Loss Reinsurance Contract
INFORMATION
THIS INFORMATION SECTION REFERENCES THE INFORMATION MADE AVAILABLE TO
REINSURERS FOR ASSESSMENT OF THE RISK AT THE TIME OF UNDERWRITING. IT DOES NOT
INCLUDE CONTRACTUAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
INFORMATION
Airline USD 10,000,000
Large General Aviation USD 10,000,000 Small General
Aviation USD 2,950,000
LR / Date created 18/01/18 Information Page 1
UMR : B0
Reinsured :
Type : Excess of Loss Reinsurance Contract
LR / Date created 18/01/18 Subscription Agreement Page 2
LR / Date created 18/01/18 Subscription Agreement Page 4
UMR B0
Reinsured
Type Excess of Loss Reinsurance Contract
FISCAL AND REGULATORY
LR / Date created 18/01/18 Fiscal and Regulatory Page 1
UMR B0
Reinsured
Type Excess of Loss Reinsurance Contract
LR / Date created 18/01/18
Broker Remuneration and Deductions Page
1
UMR : B0
Reinsured :
Type : Excess of Loss Reinsurance Contract
REINSURED SIGNATURE PAGE
Signed herein in respect of:
Risk Details Page 1 to 13 inclusive. Information Page 1.
Subscription Agreement Page 1 to 4 inclusive. Fiscal and Regulatory Page 1.
Security Details Page 1 to 3 inclusive.
For and on behalf of the Reinsured:
Date:
LR / Date created 18/01/18 Reinsured Signature Page 1
UMR : B0
Reinsured :
Type : Excess of Loss Reinsurance Contract
SECURITY DETAILS
REINSURERS
LIABILITY Reinsurers Liability Clause LMA3333 Reinsurers’ liability several not
joint.
The liability of a Reinsurer under this contract is several and not joint with
other Reinsurers party to this contract. A Reinsurer is liable only for the
proportion of liability it has underwritten. A Reinsurer is not jointly liable for
the proportion of liability underwritten by any other Reinsurer. Nor is a
Reinsurer otherwise responsible for any liability of any other Reinsurer that
may underwrite this contract.
The proportion of liability under this contract underwritten by a Reinsurer (or,
in the case of a Lloyd's syndicate, the total of the proportions underwritten by
all the members of the syndicate taken together) is shown next to its stamp.
This is subject always to the provision concerning “signing” below.
In the case of a Lloyd's syndicate, each member of the syndicate (rather than
the syndicate itself) is a Reinsurer. Each member has underwritten a
proportion of the total shown for the syndicate (that total itself being the total
of the proportions underwritten by all the members of the syndicate taken
together). The liability of each member of the syndicate is several and not
joint with other members. A member is liable only for that member's
proportion. A member is not jointly liable for any other member's proportion.
Nor is any member otherwise responsible for any liability of any other
Reinsurer that may underwrite this contract. The business address of each
member is Lloyd's, One Lime Street, London EC3M 7HA. The identity of
each member of a Lloyd's syndicate and their respective proportion may be
obtained by writing to Market Services, Lloyd's, at the above address.
Proportion of liability
Unless there is “signing” (see below), the proportion of liability under this
contract underwritten by each Reinsurer (or, in the case of a Lloyd's
syndicate, the total of the proportions underwritten by all the members of the
syndicate taken together) is shown next to its stamp and is referred to as its
“written line”.
Where this contract permits, written lines, or certain written lines, may be
adjusted (“signed”). In that case a schedule is to be appended to this
contract to show the definitive proportion of liability under this contract
underwritten by each Reinsurer (or, in the case of a Lloyd's syndicate, the
total of the proportions underwritten by all the members of the syndicate
taken together). A definitive proportion (or, in the case of a Lloyd's syndicate,
the total of the proportions underwritten by all the members of a Lloyd's
syndicate taken together) is referred to as a “signed line”. The signed lines
shown in the schedule will prevail over the written lines unless a proven error
in calculation has occurred.
Although reference is made at various points in this clause to “this contract”
in the singular, where the circumstances so require this should be read as a
reference to contracts in the plural.
LR / Date created 18/01/18 Security Details Page 1
UMR : B0
Reinsured :
Type : Excess of Loss Reinsurance Contract
ORDER HEREON Layer One: 100% of 100%
Layer Two: 100% of 100%
BASIS OF
WRITTEN LINES Percentage of Whole.
BASIS OF
SIGNED LINES Percentage of Whole.
SIGNING
PROVISIONS In the event that the written lines hereon exceed 100% of the order, any
lines written “to stand” will be allocated in full and all other lines will be
signed down in equal proportions so that the aggregate signed lines are
equal to 100% of the order without further agreement of any of the
Reinsurers.
However:
a) in the event that the placement of the order is not completed by the
commencement date of the period of reinsurance then all lines written
by that date will be signed in full;
b) the Reinsured may elect for the disproportionate signing of Reinsurers'
lines, without further specific agreement of Reinsurers, providing that
any variation is made prior to the commencement date of the period of
reinsurance, and that lines written “to stand” may not be varied without
the documented agreement of those Reinsurers;
c) the signed lines resulting from the application of the above provisions
can be varied, before or after the commencement date of the period of
reinsurance, by the documented agreement of the Reinsured and all
Reinsurers whose lines are to be varied. The variation to the contracts
will take effect only when all such Reinsurers have agreed, with the
resulting variation in signed lines commencing from the date set out in
that agreement.
LINE CONDITIONS None unless specified individually by Reinsurers hereon under their written
participations.
All following Reinsurers make their acceptance based on the Contract
language disregarding the Slip Leader Line Conditions (if any) and any other
Line Conditions.
Line Conditions only apply to the Reinsurer who expressly makes those Line
Conditions.
MODE OF
EXECUTION This Contract and any changes to it may be executed by:
a) electronic signature technology employing computer software and a
digital signature or digitiser pen pad to capture a person's handwritten
signature in such a manner that the signature is unique to the person
signing, is under the sole control of the person signing, is capable of
verification to authenticate the signature and is linked to the document
LR / Date created 18/01/18 Security Details Page 2
UMR B
Reinsured
Type Excess of Loss Reinsurance Contract
signed in such a manner that if the data is changed, such signature is
invalidated;
b) a unique authorisation provided via a secure electronic trading
platform
c) a timed and dated authorisation provided via an electronic
message/system;
d) an exchange of facsimile/scanned copies showing the original written
ink signature of paper documents;
e) an original written ink signature of paper documents (or a true
representation of a signature, such as a rubber stamp).;
The use of any one or a combination of these methods of execution shall
constitute a legally binding and valid signing of this Contract. This Contract
may be executed in one or more of the above counterparts, each of which,
when duly executed, shall be deemed an original.
LR / Date created 18/01/18
Security Details Page 3