Aon Benfield
Risk Details 790 ABR
This Reinsurance Contract (hereinafter referred to as ‘Contract’) is entered into between the Reinsured of the
one part and the Reinsurer of the other part.
Unique Market
Reference (UMR) XXXXXXX
Reinsured XXXXXXXXXXXXX
Reinsurer Those Reinsurers, for their respective participations, as stated in the individual
Signing Pages.
Period This Contract shall cover only losses paid during the following
financial year period:
from: [01/01/2017]
to: [31/12/2017],
both days inclusive, local standard time at the place where the loss occurs.
Type Financial Year Excess of Loss Reinsurance on Paid Losses Only
Class of
Business This Contract shall cover all business accepted by the Reinsured and classified as
Domestic Motor Third Party Liability for vehicles registered in XXXXXXX
Exclusions This Contract shall be subject to the exclusions and/or exclusion clauses contained
in the Appendices section of this Contract.
Territorial Scope This Contract shall apply to losses occurring in XXXXXXX
Underwriting Scope policies underwritten in XXXXXXX
Limit EUR XXXXXXX in excess of EUR XXXXXXX
Ultimate Net Loss any one accident or loss occurrence or series of accidents or
loss occurrences arising out of the one and the same event.
Notwithstanding the above, it is hereby understood and agreed by both parties
that it is a condition precedent to the Reinsurer's liability that the Reinsured must
retain XX% of this Reinsurance Treaty.
Annual Aggregate
Limit EUR XXXXXXX (for 100%)
Losses hereunder are applied chronologically by date of loss. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Reinsured may make collections in respect of paid losses which fall
due for recovery on a settled basis, which may ultimately not be recoverable
hereon when all paid losses are considered in chronological order.
Premium Deposit Premium
EUR XXXXXXXX
(for 100%)
EUR XXXXXXX
(for SR Share)
Each amount payable in four equal instalments at 31.03.2017, 31.06.2017,
31.09.2017 and 31.12.2017.
790 ABR
AoNEmpower Results•
At the Adjustment Date the Deposit Premium shall be adjusted to an amount equal
to the rate of:
XXX%
applied to the Reinsured’s earned Premium Income 2017, subject, however, to the
Minimum Premium:
EUR XXX (for 100%)
EUR XXXX (for SR Share)
The payment of any adjustment due between the parties shall thereupon become
payable forthwith.
Definition of Premium Income
The term "Premium Income" shall mean the gross premium earned by the
Reinsured during the period of this Contract on business protected hereunder, less
only deductions in respect of governmental taxes and fees, returned premiums and
premiums paid for reinsurances recoveries under which inure to the benefit hereof.
Adjustment Date:
As soon as possible but not later than 3 months after expiry of this contract.
Premium Payment
Terms
None.
Taxes Payable by
the Reinsured
and Administered
by Reinsurers
None.
Special
Acceptances
All special acceptances are to be agreed by Swiss Re only and such agreement
shall be binding on all other Reinsurers hereon. Any special acceptances
previously agreed are to remain covered and automatically renewed hereunder.
All Reinsurers shall be advised of the special acceptances which are covered
hereunder at the renewal of this Contract.
Notices
Terminology Clarification Notice ~ ABR1325
For the purposes of this Contract, where established market referenced clauses are
included herein, terminology is maintained as utilised in such issued clauses.
However, where necessary, the interpretation of the terminology as stated in the
text of the referenced clause shall be considered within the context of this Contract.
Dispute Resolution
Dispute Resolution ~ ABR1004
Where any dispute or difference between the parties arising out of or in connection
with this Contract including formation and validity and whether arising during or
after the period of this Contract has not been settled through negotiation, both
parties agree to try in good faith to settle such dispute by non-binding mediation,
before resorting to arbitration in the manner set out below.
ABsolute
AoNEmpower Results•
Page 2
790 ABR
Arbitration All matters in difference between the parties arising under, out of or in connection
with this Contract, including formation and validity, and whether arising during or
after the period of this Contract, shall be referred to an arbitration tribunal in the
manner hereinafter set out.
Unless the parties agree upon a sole arbitrator within 14 days of one receiving a
written request from the other for arbitration, the claimant (the party requesting
arbitration) shall appoint its arbitrator and give written notice thereof to the
respondent. Within 30 days of receiving such notice the respondent shall appoint
its arbitrator and give written notice thereof to the claimant, failing which the
claimant may apply to the appointor hereinafter named to nominate an arbitrator on
behalf of the respondent.
Before they enter upon a reference the two arbitrators shall appoint a third
arbitrator. Should they fail to appoint such a third arbitrator within thirty days of the
appointment of the respondent's arbitrator then either of them or either of the
parties may apply to the appointor for the appointment of the third arbitrator. The
three arbitrators shall decide by majority. If no majority can be reached the verdict
of the third arbitrator shall prevail. He shall also act as chairman of the tribunal.
Unless the parties otherwise agree the arbitration tribunal shall consist of persons
(including those who have retired) with not less than 10 years' experience of
insurance or reinsurance as persons engaged in the industry itself or as lawyers or
other professional advisers.
The arbitration tribunal shall, so far as is permissible under the law and practice of
the seat of arbitration, have power to fix all procedural rules for the holding of the
arbitration including discretionary power to make orders as to any matters which it
may consider proper in the circumstances of the case with regard to pleadings,
discovery, inspection of the documents, examination of witnesses and any other
matter whatsoever relating to the conduct of the arbitration and may receive and
act upon such evidence whether oral or written strictly admissible or not as it shall
in its discretion think fit.
The appointor shall be the Secretary General of the Court of Arbitration of the
International Chamber of Commerce or if he is unavailable or it is inappropriate for
him to act for any reason, such person as may be nominated by the Secretary
General of the Court of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce. If for
any reason such persons decline or are unable to act, then the appointor shall be
the Judge of the appropriate Courts having jurisdiction at the seat of arbitration.
All costs of the arbitration shall be determined by the arbitration tribunal who may,
taking into account the law and practice of the seat of arbitration, direct to and by
whom and in what manner they shall be paid.
The seat of the arbitration shall be in XXXXXXX and the arbitration tribunal shall
apply the law of XXXXXXX as the proper law of this arbitration agreement and of
the above Contract.
The award of the arbitration tribunal shall be in writing, final and binding upon the
parties who covenant to carry out the same. If either of the parties shall fail to
carry out any award the other may apply for its enforcement to a court of
competent jurisdiction in the territory in which the party in default is domiciled or
has assets or carries on business.
ABsolute
Page 3 AoNEmpower Results.
790 ABR
Choice of
Law and Jurisdiction Law and Jurisdiction ~ ABR1005
This Contract shall be governed by and is construed in accordance with XXXXXXX
law in all respects.
Any dispute or matter which requires reference to a court arising out of or relating
to an arbitration, or falling outside the scope of the Arbitration clause, shall be
submitted to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of XXXXXXX.
Recording,
Transmitting
and Storing
Information The Intermediary may maintain all files in relation to this Contract electronically.
Reinsurer Contract
Documentation
This document details the Contract terms entered into by the Reinsurers and
constitutes the Contract Document.
The endorsement(s) or e-endorsement(s) signed by Reinsurers shall form the
evidence of the changes agreed.
Note: A separately prepared wording / policy will not be issued for agreement in
respect of this Contract.
ABsolute
Page 4 AoNEmpower Results.
790 ABR
Risk Details - Conditions
Index
Condition 1 Ultimate Net Loss
Condition 2 Net Retained Lines
Condition 3 Rates of Exchange
Condition 4 Currency Fluctuation
Condition 5 Notification of Claims
ABR1028
ABR1037
ABR1140
ABR1673
ABR1016
ABR1014
ABR1013
ABR1666
Condition 7 Accounts – amended
Condition 8 Loss Settlements – amended
Condition 9 Inspection of Records
Condition 10 Errors and Omissions
Condition 11 Termination
Termination Amendment
Condition 13 Change in Law
Condition 14 Mode of Execution Clause
Condition 15 Amendments
Condition 16 Intermediary
Condition 17 Sanctions Exclusion Clause
Condition 18 Self Insurance
ABR1036
ABR1644
ABR1679
ABR1955
ABR1621
ABR1040
Condition 1
Ultimate Net Loss
The term "Ultimate Net Loss" shall mean the sum actually paid by the Reinsured in respect of each and every
loss any one accident or loss occurrence or series of accidents or loss occurrences arising out of one event
including expenses of litigation, if any, and all other loss expenses of the Reinsured (excluding, however,
office expenses and salaries of employees of the Reinsured) but salvages and recoveries including
recoveries from all other reinsurances, other than underlying reinsurances, shall be first deducted from such
loss to arrive at the amount of liability, if any, attaching hereunder.
All salvages, recoveries or payments recovered or received subsequent to any loss settlement hereunder
shall be applied as if recovered or received prior to the aforesaid settlement, and all necessary adjustments
shall be made by the parties hereto.
Nothing in this clause shall be construed to mean that a recovery cannot be made hereunder until the
Reinsured's Ultimate Net Loss has been ascertained.
Condition 2
Net Retained Lines
Reinsurers' liability hereunder shall not be increased due to an error or omission which results in an increase
in the Reinsured's normal net retention nor by the Reinsured's failure to reinsure in accordance with its
normal practice, nor by the inability of the Reinsured to collect from any other reinsurers any amounts which
may have become due from them whether such inability arises from the insolvency of such other reinsurers
or otherwise.It is hereby understood and agreed that it is a condition precedent to the Reinsurer's liability
that the Reinsured must retain 50% of this Reinsurance Treaty and shall not buy any other reinsurance
and/or financial protection for this retention.
ABsolute
Page 5 A0NEmpower Results"
790 ABR
Condition 3
Rates of Exchange ~ ABR1028
For the purpose of this Contract, currencies other than Euro (EUR) shall be converted into such currency at
the rates of exchange used in the Reinsured's books, or where there is a specific remittance for a loss
settlement, at the rates of exchange used in making such remittance.
Condition 4
Currency Fluctuation
1. In the event the Reinsured sustains losses in a currency other than EUR the Reinsurer's liability shall
be calculated as follows:
a) The Deductible of the Reinsured and the Limit of the Reinsurer as expressed in EUR shall be
converted into the currency concerned, at the rate of exchange ruling on the inception date of
this Contract, in the Reinsured's books.
and
b) The balance of any loss payment in excess of the Reinsured's Deductible shall be converted
from the currency in which the loss was settled into EUR at the rate of exchange used by the
Reinsured and ruling on the date or dates of settlement of the loss by the Reinsured.
2. In the event losses are sustained by the Reinsured in respect of the same loss in more than one
currency these shall be converted into the major currency involved for the purposes of establishing the
Deductible of the Reinsured and the Limit of the Reinsurer. The proportion of the claim in each
currency paid by the Reinsurer shall be the same as that established in computing the overall claim,
and such amounts shall be converted into EUR at the rate of exchange used by the Reinsured and
ruling on the date of settlement of the loss by the Reinsured.
Condition 5
Notification of Claims-
amended
The Reinsured shall notify the Reinsurers immediately of each accident or event with all relevant
details where either the sums claimed or the potential loss amounts to or exceeds XXXXXXX
whether or not the Reinsured considers that it has an adequate defence or that there may be any
contribution by a third party, and the Reinsured shall advise the Reinsurer of its estimate of the
probable cost of the loss. The Reinsured shall keep the Reinsurer informed of all developments
likely to affect the cost of any claims hereunder.
It is hereby noted and agreed by both parties that the Reinsurer assumes no liability in respect of any
notified losses that have not been paid by the Reinsured in the financial year 2017.
ABsolute
Page 6 AoNEmpower Results.
790 ABR
(c )
Condition 7
Accounts ~ ABR1140
- amended
It is a condition precedent to the Reinsurer's liability that the Reinsured submits to the Reinsurer a monthly
bordereaux of all losses paid exceeding XXXXXXX within 10 weeks from the last day of each month. Each
bordereau must include a list of all settled claims, the respective claims details and proof of loss amount per
each claim. Such bordereaux will be rendered in EUR.
Condition 8
Loss Settlements ~ ABR1673 - amended
All loss settlements made by the Reinsured in the financial year 2017, provided same are within the terms
and conditions of the original Policies in respect of the business covered hereunder and within the terms
and conditions of this Contract, shall be unconditionally binding upon the Reinsurers and amounts falling to
the share of the Reinsurers shall be payable by them upon reasonable evidence of the amount paid being
given by the Reinsured. It is a condition precedent to the Reinsurer's liability that the original loss was paid
by the Reinsured in the financial year 2017.
Condition 9
Inspection of Records ~ ABR1016
The Reinsurers, or representatives duly authorised by them, may at any time during normal office hours of
the Reinsured and at a place to be mutually agreed between the parties, inspect and take copies of such of
the Reinsured's records and documents which relate to business covered under this Contract. It is agreed
that the Reinsurers' right of inspection shall continue as long as either party has a claim against the other
arising out of this Contract or whilst any liability remains hereunder.
Condition 10
Errors and Omissions ~ ABR1014
Any inadvertent error or omission on the part of either the Reinsured or the Reinsurers shall not relieve either
party from any liability which would have attached to this Contract and such error or omission shall be
rectified immediately upon discovery. Nevertheless, nothing in this clause shall be held to override any of the
terms and conditions of this Contract and no liability shall be imposed on either party greater than would have
attached hereunder if the error or omission had not occurred.
ABsolute
Page 7 AoNEmpower Results.
790 ABR
Condition 11
Termination ~ ABR1013
Either party shall have the right to terminate this Contract immediately by giving the other party written
notice:
(a) If the performance of the whole or any part of this Contract be prohibited or rendered impossible de
jure or de facto in particular and without prejudice to the generality of the preceding words in
consequence of any law or regulation which is or shall be in force in any country or territory or if any
law or regulation shall prevent directly or indirectly the remittance of any or all or any part of the
balance of payments due to or from either party;
(b) If the other party has become insolvent or unable to pay its debts or has lost the whole or any part of
its paid up capital;
(c) If there is any material change in the ownership or control of the other party;
(d) If the country or territory in which the other party resides or has its head office or is incorporated shall
be involved in armed hostilities with any other country whether war be declared or not or is partly or
wholly occupied by another power;
(e) If the other party shall have failed to comply with any of the terms and conditions of this Contract.
All notices of termination served in accordance with any of the provisions of this Clause shall be by Telex,
Facsimile or any other means of instantaneous communication that leaves a permanent record of that
communication and shall be deemed to be served upon despatch, or where communications between the
parties are interrupted, upon attempted despatch.
All notices of termination served in accordance with any of the provisions of this Clause shall be addressed
to the party concerned at its head office or at any other address previously designated by that party.
In the event of this Contract being terminated at any date other than the expiry date stated under Period then
the premium due to the Reinsurers shall be calculated pro rata temporis of the premium calculated in
accordance with the Premium hereon.
Termination Amendment ~ ABR1666
Notwithstanding the provisions of item (a) or (e) above, the right of either party to invoke the termination of
this Contract shall not arise solely due to either party being unable to fulfil their obligations of the whole or
any part of this Contract, due to any sanctions law or regulation applicable to either party which is in force
and prohibits such action.
Condition 12
Change in Law ~ ABR1036
In the event of any change in the law, whether arising from legislation, decisions of the courts or otherwise, at
any time after the Reinsurer entered into this Contract by which the Reinsurer's liability hereunder is
materially increased or extended, the parties hereto agree to take up for immediate discussion at the request
of either party a suitable revision in the terms of this Contract.
ABsolute
Page 8 AoNEmpower Results.
790 ABR
Failing agreement on such revision within 30 days after such a request, it is agreed that the Reinsurer's
liability hereunder, whensoever arising, shall be determined as if the said change in law had not taken place.
Condition 13
Mode of Execution Clause ~ ABR1644
This Contract and any amendment or changes thereto shall be executed by the Reinsurers, by the following
and no other means:
(a) an original written ink signature of paper documents (or a true representation of a signature, such as a
rubber-stamp);
(b) a facsimile or scanned copy showing the original written ink signature of paper documents;
(c) electronic signature technology employing computer software and a digital signature or digitiser pen
pad to capture a person’s handwritten signature in such a manner that the signature is unique to the
person signing, is under the sole control of the person signing, is capable of verification to authenticate
the signature and is linked to the document signed in such a manner that if the data is changed, such
signature is invalidated;
(d) a unique authorisation provided via a secure electronic trading platform.
The use of any one or a combination of these methods of execution shall constitute a legally binding and
valid signing of this Contract. Any amendment or changes to the Contract shall be executed in the same
manner.
The Contract or any amendments or changes thereto, may be executed in one or more of the specified
methods, each of which, when duly executed, shall be deemed as original.
Condition 14
Amendments ~ ABR1679
Amendments or changes to this Contract can only be made by endorsement(s) or by e-endorsement(s),
which has been produced by the Intermediary and it shall be binding upon both parties when it has been
executed by the Reinsurers (except where an alternative method has been agreed between the parties
concerned).
Condition 15
Intermediary ~ ABR1955
Both the Reinsured and the Reinsurers agree that all notices, correspondence and payments to either party
in connection with this Contract shall be forwarded through the Intermediaries for this Contract, XXXXXXXX
Condition 17
Sanctions Exclusion Clause ~ ABR1621
The Reinsurer will not be liable to provide any coverage or indemnity under this Contract if to do so would be
in violation of any sanctions law or regulation which prohibits the Reinsurer from providing coverage or paying
an indemnity under this Contract.
ABsolute
Page 9 AoNEmpower Results.
790 ABR
Condition 18
Self Insurance ~ ABR1040
An insurance issued by the Reinsured wherein the Reinsured is named as the Insured either alone or jointly
with another party shall be deemed to be an insurance coming within the scope of this Contract
notwithstanding that no legal liability may arise in respect thereof by reason of the fact that the Reinsured is
named as the Insured or one of the Insureds.
ABsolute
Page 10 AoNEmpower Results.
790 ABR
Risk Details - Appendices
Appendix No. 1 Exclusions
This Contract shall exclude:
a) Obligatory Reinsurances.
b) Line Slips, Binding Authorities, Brokers’ covers, Captive Pools, Pooling Arrangements.
c) Insurances and facultative reinsurances on an excess of loss basis, including primary and layer
covers.
d) Compulsory Workers’ Compensation Business.
e) Aviation liability.
f) Losses occurring in USA/Canada.
g) Delegation of Underwriting Authority to Third Parties.
h) Ex-gratia payments.
i) Liability transferred to a reinsured by another insurer in respect of outstanding losses unless otherwise
agreed.
j) Bankers Blanket Bonds.
k) Additional Exclusions
(i) Racing, rallies and/or speed trials.
(ii) Vehicles on rails.
(iii) Vehicles not designed to run terra firma.
(iv) Loss of, damage to or liability for goods conveyed in connection with any trade or business on
any vehicle insured by the company.
(v) Mutiny, Riots, Strikes, Civil Commotion assuming the proportions of or amounting to a popular
rising, military rising, insurrection, rebellion, revolution, military or usurped power, or any act of
any person acting on behalf of or in connection with any organisation with activity directed
towards the overthrow by force of its government de jure or de facto or the influencing of it by
terrorism or violence.
(vi) Terrorism.
(vii) Airport vehicle.
(viii) War, civil war, invasion, act of foreign enemy, hostilities or war like operations (whether war be
declared or not).
(ix) Vehicles of armed forces and/or law enforcement purposes (unless agreed on special
acceptance basis)
ABsolute
Page 11 A0NEmpower Results"
790 ABR
(x) Contractor’s plant and equipment not on public highway, unless subject to MTPL insurance.
These additional exclusions shall not apply however if coverage is required by the law of the country
being visited.
This Contract shall also be subject to the following exclusion clauses:
a) Nuclear Energy Risks in accordance with the
Nuclear Energy Risks Exclusion Clause (Reinsurance) (1994)
(Worldwide excluding U.S.A. and Canada) ~ NMA1975A.
b) Electronic Data Endorsement B ~ NMA2915.
ABsolute
Page 12 AoNEmpower Results.
790 ABR
Information
The following information has been provided to Reinsurers to support the assessment of the risk at the time
of underwriting.
a. As per Information Presentation dated: Submission provided on XXXXXXX
b. Estimated Gross Premium Earned 2017: EUR XXXXXXX
ABsolute
Page 13 A0NEmpower Results"
790 ABR
ABsolute
Page 14 AoNEmpower Results.
790 ABR
Fiscal and Regulatory
Tax Payable by
Reinsurer(s) None.
Country of Origin XXXXXXX
Overseas Broker Direct Reinsured.
Allocation of Premium
to Coding No accounting splits required.
Regulatory Client
Classification Reinsurance.
ABsolute
Page 15 A0NEmpower Results"
790 ABR
Intermediary Remuneration and Deductions
Fee Payable
by Client? No.
Total Brokerage 10.00%
Other Deductions
from Premium None.
ABsolute
Page 16 A0NEmpower Results"
790 ABR
Reinsurer Signing Page
The Reinsurer named below hereby agrees to the terms and conditions of this Contract and also allows the
Intermediary to subsequently allocate a signed line, which is entered below and shall be separately notified
to the Reinsurer.
REINSURER WRITTEN LINE SIGNED LINE
xx% xx%
(Entered by the Intermediary)
Signed in this day of 2017
For and on behalf of:
Reinsurer Reference:
ABsolute
Page 17 A0NEmpower Results"
790 ABR
Reinsured Signing Page
The Reinsured hereby agrees to the terms and conditions of this Contract.
REINSURED
XXXXXXX
Signed in this day of 2017
For and on behalf of:
Reinsured Reference:
ABsolute
Page 18 A0NEmpower Results"