Aon Benfield
Risk Details 790 ABR
Unique Market
Reference (UMR) XXXXXXXX
Reinsured XXXXXXXXXX (hereinafter referred to as the Reinsured).
Reinsurer The subscribing Insurance and/or Reinsurance Companies and/or Underwriting
Members of Lloyd’s (hereinafter referred to as the Reinsurers), for a participation
as stated in the individual signing pages.
Period This Contract shall apply to losses occurring during the 12 month period:
Effective from: 1 April 2017
Expiring on: 31 March 2018
both days inclusive, Local Standard Time at the place where the loss occurs.
The rights and obligations of both parties to this Contract shall remain in full force
until the effective date of expiry or termination, after which the liability of the
Reinsurers shall cease absolutely, except in respect of losses occurring during the
period of this Contract, the claims for which remain unsettled at that date.
Type Terrorism Excess of Loss Reinsurance Contract.
This Contract is a semi-automatic cover: only risks with Sum Insured exceeding
EUR XXXXXXXXXX are to be advised to the Slip Leader hereon prior to inclusion
in this cover.
Class of
Business All business accepted by the Reinsured in its property account, including facultative
acceptances, covering the peril of terrorism and sabotage.
Cover given for Building and Contents including:
a) Business Interruption or Loss of Profits including Contingent Business
Interruption.
b) Contractors All Risks / Erection All Risks (Property Damage section)
c) Electronic Equipment
ConCORD
Page 1 AoNEmpower Results*
790 ABR
d) Additional Expenses:
- Loss prevention costs for losses that could be caused by imminent fire
at insured property within 20% of the sum insured of the property
threatened by fire
- Fire fighting expenses (including demolition, dismounting or relocating
of insured property in order to limit fire within 20% if the sum insured of
the property affected by fire)
- Increased Cost of Working
- Professional Fees
For the purpose of this Contract, an Act of Terrorism means an act or series of acts,
including the use of force or violence, of any person or group(s) of persons,
whether acting alone or on behalf of or in connection with any organisation(s),
committed for political, religious or ideological purposes including the intention to
influence any government and/or to put the public in fear for such purposes.
For the purpose of this Contract, an act of sabotage means a subversive act or
series of such acts committed for political, religious or ideological purposes
including the intention to influence any government and/or to put the public in fear
for such purposes.
Territorial Scope
This Contract shall apply to losses occurring on risks situated in XXXXXXXXXX.
Limits
The Reinsurers hereby agree to indemnify the Reinsured up to but not exceeding
the Limit of Indemnity of:
EUR XXXXXXXXXX Ultimate Net Loss Each and Every Risk
IN EXCESS OF
EUR XXXXXXXXXX Ultimate Net Loss Each and Every Risk.
No limitation of Aggregate Sum Insured of risks included in this Contract.
The Reinsured’s decision as to what constitutes one Risk shall be binding on
Reinsurers.
Premium
A flat premium of:
EUR
payable in two equal instalments at 15 May 2016 and 15 September 2016.
Reinstatement
Provisions
In the event of loss or losses occurring under this Contract, it is hereby mutually
agreed to reinstate this Contract to its full amount from the time of such loss or
losses until the expiry of this Contract without payment of an additional premium,
however, limited to the number of reinstatements, as follows:
ConCORD
AoNEmpower Results*
Page 2
790 ABR
One full free reinstatement.
Losses hereunder are applied chronologically by date of loss. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Reinsured may make collections in respect of losses which fall due
for recovery on a settled basis, which may ultimately not be recoverable hereon
when all losses are considered in chronological order.
Premium Payment
Terms None.
Taxes Payable by
the Reinsured
and administered
by Reinsurers None.
Conditions Clauses applicable:
a) Ultimate Net Loss
The term "Ultimate Net Loss" shall mean the sum actually paid or payable by
the Reinsured in respect of Each and Every Loss Each and Every Risk
including expenses of litigation, if any, and all other loss expenses of the
Reinsured, (excluding, however, office expenses and salaries of employees
of the Reinsured) but salvages and recoveries, including recoveries from all
other reinsurances, other than underlying excess of loss reinsurances,
whether collected or not, shall be first deducted from such loss to arrive at
the amount of liability, if any, attaching hereunder.
Salvages ~ ABR1023
All salvages, recoveries or payments recovered or received subsequent to
any loss settlement hereunder shall be applied as if recovered or received
prior to the aforesaid settlement and all necessary adjustments shall be
made by the parties hereto. Nothing in this Clause shall be construed to
mean that a recovery cannot be made hereunder until the Reinsured's
Ultimate Net Loss has been ascertained.
b) Net Retained Lines ~ ABR1008
This Contract shall only protect that portion of any business covered
hereunder which the Reinsured, acting in accordance with its established
practices, retains net for its own account. Reinsurers' liability hereunder
shall not be increased due to an error or omission which results in an increase in
the Reinsured's normal net retention nor by the Reinsured's failure to
reinsure in accordance with its normal practice, nor by the inability of the
Reinsured to collect from any other reinsurers any amounts which may have
become due from them whether such inability arises from the insolvency of
such other reinsurers or otherwise.
c) Rates of Exchange ~ ABR1028
For the purpose of this Contract, currencies other than Euro (EUR) shall be
converted into such currency at the rates of exchange used in the
ConCORD
Page 3 AoNEmpower Results*
790 ABR
Reinsured's books, or where there is a specific remittance for a loss
settlement, at the rates of exchange used in making such remittance.
d) Claims Control Clause
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Contract and/or the Original
Policy wording to the contrary, it is a condition precedent to any liability
under this Contract that:
a. The Reinsured shall, upon knowledge of any circumstances which
may give rise to a claim against this Contract, advise the Reinsurers
thereof by email, facsimile or in writing immediately and in any event
not later than 14 days;
b. The Reinsured shall furnish Reinsurers with all information
respecting any claim or claims;
c. The Reinsurers shall have the right to appoint adjusters and/or
representatives acting on their behalf to control all negotiations,
adjustments and settlements in connection with such claim or
claims.
e) Loss Settlements
All loss settlements made by the Reinsured, provided same are within the
terms and conditions of the original policies in respect of the business
covered hereunder and within the terms and conditions of this Contract, shall
be binding upon the Reinsurers and amounts falling to the share of the
Reinsurers shall be payable by them at the same time as under the original
policy, in order that the Reinsured shall not be required to advance funds on
behalf of the Reinsurers.
f) Currency Fluctuation Clause
1. In the event the Reinsured sustains losses in a currency other than
Euro the Reinsurer's liability shall be calculated as follows:
a) The underlying loss of the Reinsured and the limit of indemnity of
the Reinsurer as expressed in Euro shall be converted into the
currency concerned, at the rate of exchange ruling on the
inception date of this Reinsurance, in the Reinsured's books. and
b) The balance of any loss payment in excess of the Reinsured's
underlying loss shall be converted from the currency in which the
loss was settled into Euro at the rate of exchange used by the
Reinsured and ruling on the date or dates of settlement of the
loss by the Reinsured.
2. In the event losses are sustained by the Reinsured in respect of the
same loss in more than one currency these shall be converted into the
major currency involved for the purposes of establishing the
underlying loss of the Reinsured and the limit of indemnity of the
Reinsurer. The proportion of the claim in each currency paid by the
Reinsurer shall be the same as that established in computing the
overall claim, and such amounts shall be converted into Euro at the
ConCORD
Page 4 AoNEmpower Results*
790 ABR
rate of exchange used by the Reinsured and ruling on the date of
settlement of the loss by the Reinsured.
g) Simultaneous Payments
When the total amount of a loss payable by the Reinsured within 14 days in
respect of any one risk exceeds the Underlying Loss hereon, the Reinsured
shall have the option to request Reinsurers to remit their share of the
amount in excess of the Underlying Loss, up to the Limit of Indemnity of the
Reinsurers. The amounts falling to the share of the Reinsurers shall be
payable by them within 14 days of such request upon reasonable evidence
of the amount payable being given by the Reinsured.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, it is understood that the Reinsurers may
deduct from any claims payment so requested any balances of account due
to the Reinsurers and arising out of the operation of this Contract.
The settlement currency shall be Euro.
h) Errors and Omissions ~ ABR1014
Any inadvertent error or omission on the part of either the Reinsured or the
Reinsurers shall not relieve either party from any liability which would have
attached to this Contract and such error or omission shall be rectified
immediately upon discovery. Nevertheless, nothing in this Clause shall be
held to override any of the terms and conditions of this Contract and no
liability shall be imposed on either party greater than would have attached
hereunder if the error or omission had not occurred.
i) Termination
Either party shall have the right to terminate this Contract by giving the other
party 30 days written notice:
(a) If the performance of the whole or any part of this Contract be
prohibited or rendered impossible de jure or de facto in particular and
without prejudice to the generality of the preceding words in
consequence of any law or regulation which is or shall be in force in
any country or territory or if any law or regulation shall prevent directly
or indirectly the remittance of any or all or any part of the balance of
payments due to or from either party;
(b) If the other party has become insolvent or unable to pay its debts or
has lost the whole or more than 20% of its paid up capital;
(c) If there is any material change in the ownership or control of the other
party;
(d) If the country or territory in which the other party resides or has its
head office or is incorporated shall be involved in armed hostilities
with any other country whether war be declared or not or is partly or
wholly occupied by another power;
(e) If the other party shall have failed to comply with any of the terms and
conditions of this Contract.
ConCORD
Page 5 AoNEmpower Results*
790 ABR
All notices of termination served in accordance with any of the provisions of
this Clause shall be by Telex, Facsimile or any other means of
instantaneous communication that leaves a permanent record of that
communication and shall be deemed to be served upon despatch, or where
communications between the parties are interrupted, upon attempted
despatch.
All notices of termination served in accordance with any of the provisions of
this Clause shall be addressed to the party concerned at its head office or at
any other address previously designated by that party.
In the event of this Contract being terminated at any date other than that
stated under Period then the premium due to the Reinsurers shall be pro
rata temporis of the premium calculated on the basis stated in the Premium
clause or pro rata temporis of the minimum, whichever is the greater, or pro
rata temporis of the flat premium, if applicable. Any Reinstatement Premium,
however, shall not form part of this calculation and will not be subject to
return to the Reinsured.
j) Mode of Execution Clause ~ ABR1644
This Contract and any amendment or changes thereto shall be executed by
the Reinsurers, by the following and no other means:
(a) an original written ink signature of paper documents (or a true
representation of a signature, such as a rubber-stamp);
(b) a facsimile or scanned copy showing the original written ink signature
of paper documents;
(c) electronic signature technology employing computer software and a
digital signature or digitiser pen pad to capture a person’s handwritten
signature in such a manner that the signature is unique to the person
signing, is under the sole control of the person signing, is capable of
verification to authenticate the signature and is linked to the document
signed in such a manner that if the data is changed, such signature is
invalidated;
(d) a unique authorisation provided via a secure electronic trading
platform.
The use of any one or a combination of these methods of execution shall
constitute a legally binding and valid signing of this Contract. Any
amendment or changes to the Contract shall be executed in the same
manner.
The Contract or any amendments thereto, may be executed in one or more
of the specified methods, each of which, when duly executed, shall be
deemed as original.
k) Amendments ~ ABR1679
Amendments or changes to this Contract can only be made by
endorsement(s) or by e-endorsement(s), which has been produced by the
ConCORD
Page 6 AoNEmpower Results*
790 ABR
Intermediary and it shall be binding upon both parties when it has been
executed by the Reinsurers (except where an alternative method has been
agreed between the parties concerned).
l) Intermediary ~ ABR1955
Both the Reinsured and the Reinsurers agree that all notices,
correspondence and payments to either party in connection with this
Contract shall be forwarded through the Intermediaries for this Contract,
XXXXXXXX
Exclusions This Contract shall exclude:
This Contract shall exclude unless agreed by the Slip Leader only:
1. Embassies and Pipelines.
2. Loss or damage arising directly or indirectly from nuclear detonation, nuclear
reaction, nuclear radiation or radioactive contamination, however such
nuclear detonation, nuclear reaction, nuclear radiation or radioactive
contamination may have been caused.
3. Loss or damage occasioned directly or indirectly by war, invasion or warlike
operations (whether war be declared or not), hostile acts of sovereign or
local government entities, civil war, rebellion, revolution, insurrection, martial
law, usurpation of power, or civil commotion assuming the proportions of or
amounting to an uprising.
4. Loss by seizure or legal or illegal occupation unless physical loss or damage
is caused directly by an Act of Terrorism or an Act of Sabotage.
5. Loss or damage caused by confiscation, nationalisation, requisition,
detention, embargo, quarantine, or any result of any order of public or
government authority which deprives the Insured of the use or value of its
property, nor for loss or damage arising from acts of contraband or illegal
transportation or illegal trade.
6. Loss or damage directly or indirectly arising from or in consequence of the
seepage and or discharge of pollutants or contaminants, which pollutants
and contaminants shall include but not be limited to any solid, liquid, gaseous
or thermal irritant, contaminant or toxic or hazardous substance or any
substance the presence, existence or release of which endangers or
threatens to endanger the health, safety or welfare of persons or the
environment.
7. Loss or damage arising directly or indirectly from or in consequence of
chemical or biological emission, release, discharge, dispersal or escape or
chemical or biological exposure of any kind.
8. Loss or damage arising directly or indirectly from or in consequence of
asbestos emission, release, discharge, dispersal or escape or asbestos
exposure of any kind.
9. Any fine or penalty or other assessment which is incurred by the Insured or
which is imposed by any court, government agency, public or civil authority
or any other person.
ConCORD
Page 7 AoNEmpower Results*
790 ABR
10. Loss or damage by electronic means including but not limited to computer
hacking or the introduction of any form of computer virus or corrupting or
unauthorised instructions or code or the use of any electromagnetic weapon.
This exclusion shall not operate to exclude losses (which would otherwise be
covered under this Contract) arising from the use of any computer, computer
system or computer software programme or any other electronic system in
the launch and/or guidance system and/or firing mechanism of any weapon
or missile.
11. Loss or damage caused by vandals or other persons acting maliciously or by
way of protest or strikes, labour unrest, riots or civil commotion.
12. Loss or increased cost occasioned by any public or government or local or
civil authority’s enforcement of any ordinance or law regulating the
reconstruction, repair or demolition of any property insured hereunder.
13. Loss or damage caused by factors including but not limited to cessation,
fluctuation or variation in, or insufficiency of, water, gas or electricity supplies
and telecommunications or any type of service.
14. Loss or increased cost as a result of threat or hoax.
15. Loss or damage caused by or arising out of burglary, house - breaking,
looting, theft or larceny.
16. Loss or damage caused by mysterious disappearance or unexplained loss.
17. Loss or damage directly or indirectly caused by mould, mildew, fungus,
spores or other microorganism of any type, nature or description, including
but not limited to any substance whose presence poses an actual or potential
threat to human health.
In respect of Business Interruption only this Contract unless agreed by the Slip
Leader only shall exclude:
1. Increase in loss resulting from interference at the insured premises, by
strikers or other persons, with rebuilding, repairing or replacing the property
or with the resumption or continuation of operation;
2. Increase in loss caused by the suspension, lapse, or cancellation of any
lease, licence, contract, or order, unless such results directly from the
insured Interruption of Business, and then Reinsurers shall be liable for only
such loss as affects the Insured's earnings during, and limited to, the period
of indemnity covered under this Contract;
3. Increase in loss caused by the enforcement of any ordinance or law
regulating the use, reconstruction, repair or demolition of any property
insured hereunder;
4. Loss of market or any other consequential loss.
ConCORD
Page 8 AoNEmpower Results*
790 ABR
Special
Acceptances
All special acceptances are to be agreed by the Slip Leader only and such
agreement shall be binding on all other Reinsurers hereon. Any special
acceptances previously agreed are to remain covered and automatically renewed
hereunder.
Notices
Terminology Clarification Notice ~ ABR1325
For the purposes of this Contract, where established market referenced clauses
are included herein, terminology is maintained as utilized in such issued clauses.
However, where necessary, the interpretation of the terminology as stated in the
text of the referenced clause shall be considered within the context of this Contract.
Dispute Resolution
Dispute Resolution ~ ABR1004
Where any dispute or difference between the parties arising out of or in connection
with this Contract including formation and validity and whether arising during or
after the period of this Contract has not been settled through negotiation, both
parties agree to try in good faith to settle such dispute by non binding mediation,
before resorting to arbitration in the manner set out below.
Arbitration
All matters in difference between the parties arising under, out of or in connection
with this Contract, including formation and validity and whether arising during or
after the period of this Contract, shall be referred to an arbitration tribunal in the
manner hereinafter set out.
Unless the parties agree upon a sole arbitrator within fourteen days of one
receiving a written request from the other for arbitration, the claimant (the party
requesting arbitration) shall appoint its arbitrator and give written notice thereof to
the respondent. Within thirty days of receiving such notice the respondent shall
appoint its arbitrator and give written notice thereof to the claimant, failing which
the claimant may apply to the appointor hereinafter named to nominate an
arbitrator on behalf of the respondent.
Before they enter upon a reference the two arbitrators shall appoint a third
arbitrator. Should they fail to appoint such a third arbitrator within thirty days of the
appointment of the respondent’s arbitrator then either of them or either of the
parties may apply to the appointor for the appointment of the third arbitrator. The
three arbitrators shall decide by majority. If no majority can be reached the verdict
of the third arbitrator shall prevail. He shall also act as chairman of the tribunal.
Unless the parties otherwise agree, the arbitration tribunal shall consist of persons
(including those who have retired) with not less than ten years’ experience of
insurance or reinsurance as persons engaged in the industry itself or as lawyers or
other professional advisers.
The arbitration tribunal shall, so far as is permissible under the law and practice of
the seat of arbitration, have power to fix all procedural rules for the holding of the
arbitration including discretionary power to make orders as to any matters which it
may consider proper in the circumstances of the case with regard to pleadings,
discovery, inspection of the documents, examination of witnesses and any other
matter whatsoever relating to the conduct of the arbitration and may receive and
act upon such evidence whether oral or written strictly admissible or not as it shall
in its discretion think fit.
ConCORD
AoNEmpower Results*
Page 9
790 ABR
The appointor shall be the Secretary General of the Court of Arbitration of the
International Chamber of Commerce. If for any reason such appointor declines or
is unable to act, then the appointor shall be the Judge of the appropriate Courts
having jurisdiction at the seat of arbitration.
All costs of the arbitration shall be determined by the arbitration tribunal who may,
taking into account the law and practice of the seat of arbitration, direct to and by
whom and in what manner they shall be paid.
The seat of the arbitration shall be XXXXXXXXXX and the arbitration tribunal shall
apply the law of XXXXXXXXXX as the proper law of this arbitration agreement and
of the above Contract.
The award of the arbitration tribunal shall be in writing and binding upon the parties
who covenant to carry out the same. If either of the parties should fail to carry out
any award the other may apply for its enforcement to a court of competent
jurisdiction in any territory in which the party in default is domiciled or has assets or
carries on business.
Choice of
Law and Jurisdiction
Law and Jurisdiction ~ ABR1005
This Contract shall be governed by and is construed in accordance with the law of
XXXXXXXXXX in all respects.
Any dispute or matter which requires reference to a court arising out of or relating
to an arbitration, or falling outside the scope of the Arbitration clause, shall be
submitted to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of XXXXXXXXXX.
Recording,
Transmitting
and Storing
Information
The Intermediary may maintain all files in relation to this Contract electronically.
Reinsurer Contract
Documentation
This document details the Contract terms entered into by the Reinsurers and
constitutes the Contract Document.
The endorsement(s) or e-endorsement(s) signed by Reinsurers shall form the
evidence of the changes agreed.
Note: A separately prepared wording / policy will not be issued for agreement in
respect of this Contract.
.
APPENDIX - Information
The following information has been provided to Reinsurers to support the assessment of the risk at the time
of underwriting.
ConCORD
Page 1 AoNEmpower Results*
790 ABR
Information As per Information Presentation dated
XXXXXXXXXX.
2017 / 2018 Estimated Gross Net Retained Premium Income: EUR XXXXXXXXXX
ConCORD
Page 1 AoNEmpower Results*
790 ABR
APPENDIX – Security Details
Reinsurer’s Liability Reinsurer’s Liability Clause ~ LMA3333 ~
(Reinsurer’s Liability Several Not Joint)
The liability of a Reinsurer under this Contract is several and not joint with other
Reinsurers party to this Contract. A Reinsurer is liable only for the proportion of
liability it has underwritten. A Reinsurer is not jointly liable for the proportion of
liability underwritten by any other Reinsurer. Nor is a Reinsurer otherwise
responsible for any liability of any other Reinsurer that may underwrite this
Contract.
The proportion of liability under this Contract underwritten by a Reinsurer (or, in the
case of a Lloyd’s syndicate, the total of the proportions underwritten by all the
members of the syndicate taken together) is shown next to its stamp. This is
subject always to the provision concerning “signing” below.
In the case of a Lloyd’s syndicate, each member of the syndicate (rather than the
syndicate itself) is a Reinsurer. Each member has underwritten a proportion of the
total shown for the syndicate (that total itself being the total of the proportions
underwritten by all the members of the syndicate taken together). The liability of
each member of the syndicate is several and not joint with other members. A
member is liable only for that member’s proportion. A member is not jointly liable
for any other member’s proportion. Nor is any member otherwise responsible for
any liability of any other Reinsurer that may underwrite this Contract. The business
address of each member is Lloyd’s, One Lime Street, London EC3M 7HA. The
identity of each member of a Lloyd’s syndicate and their respective proportion may
be obtained by writing to Market Services, Lloyd’s, at the above address.
Proportion of Liability
Unless there is “signing” (see below), the proportion of liability under this Contract
underwritten by each Reinsurer (or, in the case of a Lloyd’s syndicate, the total of
the proportions underwritten by all the members of the syndicate taken together) is
shown next to its stamp and is referred to as its “written line”.
Where this Contract permits, written lines, or certain written lines, may be adjusted
(“signed”). In that case a schedule is to be appended to this Contract to show the
definitive proportion of liability under this Contract underwritten by each Reinsurer
(or, in the case of a Lloyd’s syndicate, the total of the proportions underwritten by
all the members of the syndicate taken together). A definitive proportion (or, in the
case of a Lloyd’s syndicate, the total of the proportions underwritten by all the
members of a Lloyd’s syndicate taken together) is referred to as a “signed line”.
The signed lines shown in the schedule will prevail over the written lines unless a
proven error in calculation has occurred.
Although reference is made at various points in this clause to “this Contract” in the
singular, where the circumstances so require this should be read as a reference to
“Contracts” in the plural.
Order Hereon % of 100.00%.
ConCORD
Page 12 AoNEmpower Results*
790 ABR
Basis of
Written Lines Percentage of Whole.
Basis of
Signed Lines Percentage of Whole.
Signing Provisions Reinsurers agree to allow the Intermediary, without further authorisation, to sign
written lines disproportionately.
Written Lines In a co-reinsurance placement, following Reinsurers may, but are not obliged to,
follow the premium charged by the Slip Leader.
Reinsurers may not seek to guarantee for themselves terms as favourable as those
which others subsequently achieve during the placement.
Signing Pages This Contract incorporates the following:
1. A Reinsurer signing page, for each Reinsurer participating in this Contract,
signature of which binds the Reinsurer and the Reinsured to the terms and
conditions of this Contract.
Where the Reinsurer provides acceptance of a share by alternative
correspondence, this shall constitute their formal signature until superseded
by the signing page.
For the purposes of the application of Reinsurer’s Liability Clause ~
LMA3333, each Reinsurer signed line is recorded on the Reinsurer’s signing
page and not in a separate schedule appended to this Contract.
2. A Reinsured signing page, signature of which provides confirmation by them
that they agree to the terms and conditions of this Contract. This shall not
override the binding nature of the provisions of point 1.
APPENDIX - Subscription Agreement
Slip Leader
ConCORD
Page 13
AONEmpower Results*
790 ABR
Bureaux Leader
Lloyd’s:
IUA:
Second Lloyd’s
Underwiter
Basis of Agreement
to Contract Changes
Applicable to all Reinsurers ~ ABR1700
Amendments or changes to this Contract shall be made in accordance with the
Amendments Condition contained in the Risk Details.
In circumstances where the Reinsurer has the ability to send and receive
Association for Cooperative Operations Research and Development (ACORD)
messages:
1. the Intermediary shall have the option to submit any request for the
proposed Contract amendments or changes via an ‘ACORD message’ or
using an ACORD enabled electronic trading platform;
2. whilst the parties may negotiate and agree any Contract amendments or
changes in any legally effective manner, each relevant Reinsurer agrees to
respond via an appropriate ‘ACORD message’ or using an ACORD enabled
electronic trading platform, if the submission from the Intermediary has been
effected in that manner.
When details of agreed endorsements are required to be provided to following
Reinsurer(s) a Broker visit, facsimile, letter, e-mail, ACORD message, ACORD
enabled electronic trading platform or other electronic means will be used by the
Intermediary.
In the event that the Reinsurer has specifically notified the Intermediary that it will
not accept Contract changes via an ACORD message this provision will not be
invoked by the Intermediary.
and
Each Reinsurer to agree all amendments and changes, other than for Special
Acceptances and Slip Leader provisions, which shall be handled in accordance
with the provisions of the Special Acceptance section of Risk Details or any
provision that is specifically written as Slip Leader only.
Basis of Claims
Agreement
Slip Leader (if only 100%, one Reinsurer)
Lloyd’s
(if more than one Lloyd’s Syndicate participates on risk)
In accordance with the Lloyd’s Claims Scheme (Combined) or as amended or any
successor thereto.
Lloyd’s Reinsurers agree to waive the Xchanging Ins-sure Services (XIS)
settlement delay procedures in respect of first advice and settlement.
XIS member Reinsurers
(If Company Bureau (IUA) participates on risk)
In accordance with IUA Claims Agreement Practices.
ConCORD
AoNEmpower Results*
Page 14
790 ABR
Other Reinsurers
(If any other Reinsurers participate on risk)
All other Reinsurers to agree claims for their own proportion only and subject to
their own claims agreement practices.
Claims Agreement
Parties
Slip Leader (if only 100%, one Reinsurer)
Lloyd’s
The Leading Lloyd’s Syndicate and, where required by the applicable Lloyd’s
Claims Scheme, the second Lloyd’s Syndicate and/or Scheme Service Provider.
The second Lloyd’s Syndicate is:
XIS member Reinsurers
All XIS Company Reinsurers subscribing to this Contract.
Other Reinsurers
All other Reinsurers subscribing to this Contract (by correspondence).
All Reinsurers
Where a leader is in run-off it may continue to undertake the agreement of claims
provided that all Reinsurers from that market and the Reinsured agree.
Where the Reinsured or one or more Reinsurers do not agree, the next Reinsurer
on the slip will automatically assume responsibility for the agreement of claims as
the substitute leader, provided it is not in run-off.
Claims
Administration
Lloyd’s and XIS member Reinsurers
The Intermediary and Lloyd’s and XIS member Reinsurers agree that any claims
hereunder (including any claims related costs/fees) will be notified and
administered via Electronic Claims File (ECF) with any payment(s) processed via
Claims Loss Advice and Settlement System (CLASS), unless both parties agree to
do otherwise.
Other Reinsurers
All non-bureau Reinsurers to be agreed for their participation only.
Rules and Extent
of any other
Delegated Claims
Authority
None, unless otherwise specified here by any of the claims agreement parties
shown above.
Expert(s) Fees
Collection
For the avoidance of any doubt, it is understood that the Intermediary shall have no
responsibility whatsoever for the collection of any expert fees and expenses.
Settlement
Due Date
XXXXXXXXXX.
ConCORD
Page 15
AONEmpower Results*
790 ABR
Instalment
Premium Period
of Credit Lloyd’s and XIS member Reinsurers only
30 days.
Where premium is to be paid via Lloyd’s and XIS deferred scheme.
Bureaux
Arrangements Lloyd’s and XIS member Reinsurers
Where possible the Intermediary will submit De-linked accounts to Xchanging
Inssure Services. Premium payment requirements deemed met if accounts are
correctly released for settlement to Xchanging Ins-sure Services in line with bureau
procedures on or before settlement due date.
Where a premium payment warranty date, premium payment condition date or
settlement due date falls on either a weekend or UK public holiday, presentation to
the appropriate Lloyd’s or XIS signing bureau on the next working day subsequent
thereto shall be deemed to achieve compliance with the due date in question.
Premium Processing Clause ~ ABR1780
Reinsurers agree that the premiums for this Contract are not to be signed under
the Deferred Account Scheme. Each deposit premium instalment will be signed as
a de-linked additional premium.
ConCORD
Page 16 AoNEmpower Results*
790 ABR
APPENDIX - Fiscal and Regulatory
Tax Payable By
Reinsurer(s) None.
Country of Origin XXXXXXXXXX.
Overseas Broker Direct Reinsured.
Allocation of
Premium to Coding
Regulatory Client
Classification Reinsurance.
ConCORD
Page 17 AoNEmpower Results*
790 ABR
APPENDIX – Intermediary Remuneration and Deductions
Fee Payable
By Client No.
Total Brokerage 10.00%
Other Deductions
from Premium None.
ConCORD
Page 18 AoNEmpower Results*
790 ABR
REINSURER SIGNING PAGE
ATTACHING TO AND FORMING PART OF
XXXXXXXXXX
TERRORISM EXCESS OF LOSS REINSURANCE CONTRACT
XXXXXXXXXX
The Reinsurer hereby agrees to the terms and conditions of the reinsurance as contained in this Contract
and also allows the Intermediary to subsequently allocate a signed line, which is entered below and shall be
separately notified to the Reinsurer.
Signed in this day of 201
For and on behalf of:
WRITTEN LINE SIGNED LINE
(Entered by the Reinsurer) (Entered by the Intermediary)
ConCORD
Page 19 AoNEmpower Results*
790 ABR
REINSURED SIGNING PAGE
ATTACHING TO AND FORMING PART OF
TERRORISM EXCESS OF LOSS REINSURANCE CONTRACT
XXXXXXXXXX
The Reinsured hereby agrees to the terms and conditions of the reinsurance as contained in the Contract.
The Reinsured, being
XXXXXXXXXX
Signed in this day of 201
For and on behalf of Reinsured.
ConCORD
Page 20 AoNEmpower Results*