Fire Quota Share and Surplus
DRAFT Contract No. CTT..../2018
DRAFT CTT.../2018
Risk Details Section
Unique Market
Reference (UMR) CTT..../2018
Reinsured
Those Reinsurers for their respective participations, as stated in the individual Signing Pages.
Reinsurer
Continuous contract from 1 June 2018 to 31 December 2019 subject to 3 months’ notice of
Period cancellation at 31 December of any year;
th
It is hereby agreed that the first provisional notice of cancellation will be tendered at 30
th
September 2019 and afterwards automatically at 30 September of any calendar year by both
the Reinsured and Reinsurer, unless otherwise advised by either party. No formal
documentation will be issued by either party.
Type FIRE QUOTA SHARE and SURPLUS
Object and scope This Agreement shall cover at original terms and conditions all direct
insurances and facultative reinsurances accepted by the Company in the classes of insurance and
in the geographical areas set hereunder.
Classes of insurance:
This Reinsurance shall cover all Fire & Allied Perils as covered in the policies issued by the
Reinsured in Greece, including also losses of natural perils (including earthquake) up to the Natural
Perils Limits herein. Also including Theft, Burglary and Loss of Profits, insofar as they cover
financial losses arising from the loss of or physical damage to the insured property caused by an
insured peril.
Perils:
Fire and allied perils, indicatively lightning, explosion, forest fire, storm, windstorm, cyclone,
typhoon, third party property damage from any peril covered for which insured is held liable and
where such peril is insured as an extension of the fire policy (excluding non-physical damage
losses, unless resulting as a consequence of the third party property damage), earthquake,
tsunami, volcanic eruption, hail, tempest, frost, flood, snow weight, smoke, burst pipes-overflowing
of tanks, landslide from covered perils, strikes, riots and civil commotions, malicious mischief,
terrorism, vehicle impact, falling aircraft, short-circuit, burglary, plate glass, self-combustion, covers
provided under the Company’s residential and commercial package policies including also ’s
“Residential All Risks” cover.
Cover of All Risks Policies (Property Damage and Loss of Profit) for Hotels, Malls, Office Buildings
and Hospitals.
Casualty cover for products/packages/policies, also providing the following optional extensions:
a. Homeowners’ Liability insurance (e.g. personal liability and family liability, including Employer’s
Liability for housekeeping personnel)
b. General third party liability
c. General third party liability and Employer’s Liability and are ceded under this treaty.
DRAFT CTT.../2018
For clarification purposes named perils and other perils are also covered under this Agreement,
as follows:
• Damages caused to boilers, expansion tanks and pressure vessels
• Machinery Breakdown
• Deterioration of Stock
• All Risks Machinery Cover
• Safe’s Robbery & Money Insurance (cash in safe, robbery - hold up, cash in transit)
• Personal items belonging to Managers or Employees
• Damages caused to the insured capital during repair renewal or maintenance works,
including hot works.
• Trade Marks and Labels
• CBI and the following extensions: Suppliers and Customers, Denial of access, Infectious
decease, public utilities, reservation cancelation, loss of markets / loss of attraction, sea
pollution applicable to hotels only
• Alteration incurred to goods and supplies kept in cool areas or freezers due to a black out or
malfunction to the power supply network
Exclusions This Contract shall be subject to the exclusions and/or exclusion clauses contained in the
Appendices section of this Contract.
Territorial Scope This Contract shall apply to Greece and Greek interests abroad
Main Currency Euro
Quota share
Retention 50% = Euro 1,000,000 sum insured any one risk, material damage and consequential loss
combined
Quota share Cession
50% = Euro 1,000,000 sum insured any one risk, material damage and consequential loss
combined
Quota Share
Underwriting Limit
Euro 2,000,000 sum insured any one risk, material damage and consequential loss
combined
Surplus Cession
17 lines of Euro 2,000,000 = 34,000,0000, sum insured any one risk, material damage and
consequential loss combined.
Natural perils limit
For each and every loss occurrence in respect of Natural Perils, the liability of the reinsurers
under this Contract covering material damage and/or business interruption policies shall be
limited to Euro 4,000,000 any one loss occurrence and in the annual aggregate.
Terrorism limit
Annual aggregate limit of Euro 70,000,000 for Quota Share and 1st Surplus cessions
combined.
Cession basis
Original gross written premiums.
Commission
Quota Share Fire: 42.00% (fixed)
st
1 Surplus Fire: 42.00% (fixed)
DRAFT CTT.../2018 Page 3
Profit commission 30.00%.
Management expenses: 3.00% of Ceded Premium
Reinsurance Premium Written insurance premium (meaning amounts due during the Reinsurance Period
regardless of the fact that such amounts may relate to a later Reinsurance Period,
after deduction of cancellations and returns and not including taxes or charges levied
on insurance premiums)
Cession bordereaux Nil
Claim and Loss Reporting Any claim exceeding Euro 1,000,000 for 100% of the reinsurance cession
Periods of notification: quarterly, within 60 days Loss Bordereaux: Nil
Accounting System Underwriting year system:
Reinsurance premium and commission are allocated to the relevant Reinsurance
Period according to the date on which the respective Policy was underwritten
Reinsurance Compensations are allocated to the relevant Reinsurance Period
according to the date on which the respective Policy was underwritten
Account Period: quarterly
Deadline: within 60 days after the close of each quarter.
Change in share: In the last account of the preceding Reinsurance Period
Confirmation of Account and
Payment of Balance Time limit in respect of confirmation or objection:
- within 15 days from reception of the account
Time limit in respect of payment of balance:
within 15 days from receipt of the confirmation
Cash Calls
Amounts for cash call: Euro 1,000,000 for 100% of the reinsurance cession
Policies in Force at
Commencement
Coverage of Policies in force at commencement: Yes
Premium portfolio entry: Unearned Premium In
Losses Outstanding at Coverage of losses outstanding at commencement: No.
Commencement
Loss portfolio entry: None.
Policies in Force at Cease coverage of Policies in force at termination: No
Termination
Premium portfolio withdrawal: No, continuation of cover until the expiry or renewal of the
original policies.
Losses Outstanding at
Termination
Release of Reinsurer: No.
Loss portfolio exit Nil - Liability to run-off:
At cancellation only 90% loss portfolio withdrawal
DRAFT CTT.../2018 Page 4
Taxes Payable by the
Reinsured and
administered by
Reinsurers
None.
Special acceptance
Clause
Any special acceptances previously agreed are covered until their natural expiry.
If these special acceptances are renewed they may be covered subject to no material change in the terms of
the policy, as defined below. The renewal of those special acceptances will simply be advised to the
reinsurer. However, in respect of project related polices, id est engineering policies, such automatic renewals
will be limited to maximum two years extending the original declared policy period.
A list of all special acceptances, including the ones renewed with no material change, has to be submitted
with the treaty renewal information, indicating the updated sum insured and premium rate. Also the premium
rate and sum insured at the date of initial acceptance under the treaty and the reason for the special
acceptance should be indicated.
"No Material Change" conditions to be met:
1. The sum insured has not changed by more than 15% in either direction since the initial acceptance.
2. There has been no loss exceeding the claims advices & cash claims amount stated in the cover note
since the initial acceptance.
3. The premium rate has not altered by more than 15% in either direction since the initial acceptance.
4. No change in the insured's ownership, principal activity or exposure in the underlying risk since the initial
acceptance or detailed renewal submission to the reinsurer.
The below mentioned risks are agreed to continue to be ceded as special acceptance under this Treaty, subject to no
known or reported losses and no deterioration of terms and conditions of original policies: TO BE UPDATED
DRAFT CTT.../2018 Page 5
Agreement to
Arbitrate All disputes arising out of this Agreement or concerning the interpretation or validity, whether
arising before or after its termination, shall be referred to a court of arbitration, which shall
consist of Arbitrators who shall be active or retired officials or underwriters of insurance or
reinsurance companies.
If either party of the appointed Arbitrators for any reason whatsoever fails to act, the party by
whom he has been appointed shall in writing appoint an Arbitrator in his place, and if either party
fails to appoint an Arbitrator within thirty days after being requested by the other party in writing
to do so, such Arbitrator shall be nominated by the President of the Chamber of Commerce at
the seat of the party not in default upon request of either party.
Before entering upon the reference the Arbitrators shall nominate an Umpire. If the Arbitrators
fail to agree upon an Umpire within thirty days of their own appointment, an Umpire shall be
nominated by the President of the Chamber of Commerce at the seat of the defendant party
upon request of either party.
An Arbitrator may only be objected to if there are legitimate doubts about his professional of
personal suitability. A party may only object to the Arbitrator it has nominated itself if the grounds
for the objection were not known to it before his appointment. Objection to an
DRAFT CTT.../2018 Page 6
Arbitrator, with details of the grounds for it, shall be submitted to the panel of arbitration with two weeks of the constitution
of the panel or within two weeks of the party gaining knowledge of the circumstances that lead to the objection. If the
Arbitrator in question does not withdraw from the panel or the other party does not agree to his removal, the decision on
the objection shall be made by the other two members of the panel, without the Arbitrator in question.
In the event that the Arbitrators are unable to reach agreement on the reference, the Umpire shall forthwith decide on the
reference in lieu of the Arbitrators.
The Arbitrators or the Umpire are required to decide primarily in accordance with the usages and customs of reinsurance
practice and shall be relieved of all legal formalities.
They shall render their final order within three months after the appointment of the Umpire.
The order of the Arbitrators or Umpire shall be final and not subject to appeal. In making their award, the arbitrators or the
Umpire shall at the same time decide as to the payment of the cost of the arbitration.
The Court of Arbitration shall sit in Athens, Greece, and the applicable law will be Greek law.
This Agreement to submit disputes to Arbitration will be construed as a separate and independent contract between the
parties hereto.
Choice of
Law and Jurisdiction
The custom and usage of the insurance and reinsurance business in the relevant market as well as the law of Greece
shall apply to this Contract. Should there be a conflict between the provisions of this Contract and the custom and usage
or the applicable law, this Contract shall prevail in so far as permitted by the applicable law. Should there be a conflict
between the custom and usage and the applicable law, the custom and usage shall prevail in so far as permitted by the
applicable law.
This Contract is subject to the jurisdiction of Greece.
This clause remains valid, should the Contract be void.
Recording,
Transmitting
and Storing
Information
The Intermediary may maintain all files in relation to this Contract electronically.
Reinsurer Contract
Documentation
This Document details the contract terms, clauses, conditions and exclusions agreed between the Reinsured and the
Reinsurers as well as setting out administrative details under the appropriate sections contained herein.
This Document details the contract terms entered into by the Reinsurers and constitutes the contract document. No
separate Wording Documentation will be issued.
This Document is the Definitive Evidence of Cover and as such no formal policy shall be required.
Any further documentation changing this contract, agreed in accordance with the contract change provisions set out in this
contract, shall form the evidence of such change.
DRAFT CTT.../2018 Page 7
Risk Details - Conditions
Index
C Condition 1 Definitions
o
C Condition 2 Obligatory Reinsurance
o C Condition 3 Scope of Contract
o C Condition 4 Quota Share Reinsurance
o C Condition 5 Surplus Reinsurance
o C Condition 6 Incorrect or Incomplete Information
o C Condition 7 Errors and Omissions
o C Condition 8 Reinsurance Compensation
o C Condition 9 Follow the Settlements
o C Condition 10 Limits of Reinsurance Compensation
o C Condition 11 Commission
o C Condition 12 Profit Commission
o C Condition 13 Reinsurance Premium
o C Condition 14 Cession Bordereaux
o C Condition 15 Underwriting Policy
o C Condition 16 Claim and Loss Reporting
o C Condition 17 Claim Settlement/ Claims Cooperation
o C Condition 18 Inspection of Records
o C Condition 19 Utmost Good Faith and Due Diligence
o C Condition 20 Accounting System
o C Condition 21 Account
o C Condition 22 Confirmation of Account and Payment of Balance
o C Condition 23 Cash Calls
o C Condition 24 Payment Currency
o C Condition 25 Set Off
o C Condition 26 Commencement and Duration
o C Condition 27 Policies in Force at Commencement
o C Condition 28 Losses Outstanding at Commencement
o C Condition 29 Ordinary Termination
o C Condition 30 Immediate Termination
o C Condition 31 Optional Cancellation Clause
o C Condition 32 Reinsurer Downgrade
o C Condition 33 Policies in Force at Termination
o C Condition 34 Losses Outstanding at Termination
o C Condition 35 Accessory Duties
o C Condition 36 Change in Participation Share, Retention, Quota Share, Surplus
o Liability or Commission
n
Condition 37 Form of Alteration
Condition 38 Change in Law
Condition 39 Loss Occurrence Definition (for Natural Perils Limit)
Condition 40 GDPR Clause
Condition 41 Intermediary
DRAFT CTT.../2018 Page 8
Condition 1 Definitions
“Allocated Expenses” shall mean reasonable expenses incurred by the Reinsured in handling insurance losses. Costs of
loss surveys, experts' reports and legal proceedings are included, but not costs related to declaratory judgements. Salaries
of employees and management expenses of the Reinsured are not Allocated Expenses.
“Insurance Compensation” shall mean any compensation, interest or Allocated Expenses paid or payable by the
Reinsured in respect of any insurance loss under Policies covered under this Contract.
“Main Currency” shall mean the currency in which the Sum Insured is stated in the Policy.
“Official Rate of Exchange” shall mean the rate of exchange (selling price) as published in any recognised
international economic journal.
“Policy” shall mean a contract of insurance or - if applicable - contract of facultative reinsurance covered under this
Contract.
“Reinsurance Compensation” shall mean any amounts paid or payable by the Reinsurer to the Reinsured in respect of any
Insurance Compensation after taking into account salvages, recoveries and payments from third parties, including any
recoveries from other Reinsurers, whether collected or not.
“Reinsurance Periods” are annual periods between commencement and termination of this Contract and where
applicable, any similar period after termination of this Contract so long as there is any outstanding debt under this
Contract.
“Gross Insurance Liability” shall be the sum insured in respect of each risk, unless the parties agree on the Maximum
Possible Loss or any figure other than the sum insured.
“Retention” shall mean that amount of liability with respect to any risk which the Reinsured retains net for its own account.
Such amount shall be subject to the maximum amount stated in the Reinsured’s table of retentions or shall otherwise be in
accordance with its established underwriting practice. The Reinsured shall be the sole judge of what constitutes one risk.
“Surplus Liability” shall mean that portion of the Gross Insurance Liability in respect of each risk which exceeds the
Retention but limited by an agreed multiple of the Retention.
Condition 2
Obligatory Reinsurance
In return for a reinsurance premium the Reinsurer agrees to pay Reinsurance Compensation in respect of each policy
covered under this Contract, in the manner and within the limits stated in this Contract.
This Contract shall except as set out below apply automatically and without exception to all Policies within the scope of
this Contract.
The parties may however agree that in respect of certain policies specified in the RISK DETAILS reinsurance shall be on a
facultative basis.
Condition 3 Scope of
Contract
This Contract shall apply to Policies underwritten by the Reinsured within the lines of property business and territorial
DRAFT CTT.../2018 Page 9
scope set out in the RISK DETAILS.
This Contract shall only apply to Policies exclusively in force within the term of this Contract. Its application to Policies
already in force at the date of commencement or after termination is stated below.
This Contract shall apply to Policies underwritten by the Reinsured directly or in coinsurance or accepted as
proportional facultative reinsurance, unless stated otherwise in the RISK DETAILS.
Condition 4 Quota Share
Reinsurance
Reinsurance Compensation and reinsurance premium are calculated by applying the reinsurance percentage share as
defined below to the Insurance Compensation and insurance premium.
The reinsurance percentage share is calculated by multiplying the quota share by the Reinsurer's participation share, both
as set out in the RISK DETAILS.
Condition 5 Surplus
Reinsurance
Reinsurance Compensation and reinsurance premium are calculated by applying the reinsurance percentage share as
defined below to the Insurance Compensation and insurance premium.
The reinsurance percentage share is calculated by dividing the Surplus Liability by the Gross Insurance Liability. The
resulting share shall then be multiplied by the Reinsurer’s participation share. Surplus Liability and participation share are
set out in the RISK DETAILS.
With respect to Policies where the sum insured or, where applicable, the Maximum Possible Loss or any other figure
agreed between the parties, exceeds the underwriting limit set out in the RISK DETAILS the excess element of the sum
insured shall not be governed by this Contract.
Condition 6 Incorrect or Incomplete
Information
The terms of this Contract are based on information supplied by the Reinsured to the Reinsurer prior to the conclusion of
this Contract.
Should the Reinsured supply the Reinsurer with information which it knows or should have known to be incorrect or
incomplete, this Contract shall be affected as follows: If the Reinsurer, in possession of the true facts, would have declined
to provide reinsurance, this Contract shall be void. If the Reinsurer, in possession of the true facts, would have provided
reinsurance but under less advantageous terms, this Contract shall be modified accordingly as from commencement.
It will be assumed that the Reinsurer, in possession of the true facts, would have acted as a reasonable reinsurer would
have acted under the same circumstances, unless the Reinsured is able to show that the Reinsurer would not have so
acted.
Condition 7 Errors and Omissions
Errors and omissions in applying this Contract do not modify any rights or duties under this Contract. They shall be
rectified immediately after discovery.
Condition 8 Reinsurance
Compensation
The Reinsurer shall pay Reinsurance Compensation calculated by applying the reinsurance percentage share as defined
above to each Insurance Compensation.
Condition 9
DRAFT CTT.../2018 Page 10
Follow the Settlements
Claim settlements by the Reinsured shall be binding upon the Reinsurer, providing such settlements are within the terms
and conditions of the relevant Policy and within the terms and conditions of this Contract and providing the Reinsured for
its part has actually paid by transferring the necessary funds or is about to pay the Insured.
Payments by the Reinsured to the Insured where the Reinsured is not liable (that is, ex gratia payments) shall only be
binding upon the Reinsurer where its approval is obtained prior to any payment.
Condition 10
Limits of Reinsurance Compensation
The parties may set out in the RISK DETAILS a total limit for Reinsurance Compensation per loss occurrence, per event
and/or per year.
Condition 11
Commission
The Reinsurer shall pay a commission on reinsurance premiums of the percentage share set out in the RISK
DETAILS.
Condition 12 Profit
Commission
Should the parties so agree, the Reinsurer shall pay the percentage share set out in the RISK DETAILS on the profit, if any,
by way of profit commission.
The profit commission shall be calculated on the basis of a profit and loss statement to be drawn up by the Reinsured at the
end of each Reinsurance Period and sent to the Reinsurer together with the last account for the Reinsurance Period. Such
profit and loss statement shall be adapted at the end of every following Reinsurance Period until it is deemed final as
provided for in the RISK DETAILS
The profit and loss statement shall include the items set out in the RISK DETAILS as income and outgoings.
Any loss incurred in preceding Reinsurance Periods shall be carried forward as set out in the RISK DETAILS
Reserves for outstanding Reinsurance Compensation shall be calculated following recognised rules of careful
business management.
The profit commission shall be stated in the currency of the Reinsured's country of domicile. For the purposes of such
calculation, amounts in other currencies shall be converted at the Official Rate of Exchange on the day of the respective
credit, debit or reservation.
Condition 13
Reinsurance Premium
The Reinsured shall pay reinsurance premium, calculated by applying the reinsurance percentage share as defined
above to the written or cashed insurance premium as set out in the RISK DETAILS.
Condition 14 Cession
Bordereaux
All cessions under this Contract as well as alterations shall be advised to the Reinsurer in the manner set out in the RISK
DETAILS
DRAFT CTT.../2018 Page 11
Condition 15
Underwriting Policy
The Reinsured shall inform the Reinsurer of any material changes in its established underwriting policy in respect of the
lines of business to which this Contract applies. Should the Reinsured fail to inform the Reinsurer, the Reinsurer shall be
excused any liability in respect of losses occurring under Policies affected by such change and instead return the
respective reinsurance premiums relating to any period after such change had been introduced.
The established underwriting policy is set out, inter alia, in the policy forms, general conditions and tariffs used by the
Reinsured at the commencement of this Contract.
A change in the established underwriting policy is material if it may increase the Reinsurer’s liability to such an extent that a
reasonable reinsurer would, under the same circumstances, have declined to cover such policies under the same terms
and conditions.
Condition 16
Claim and loss reporting
It is a condition precedent to the Reinsurer’s liability that the Reinsured shall give immediate written notice of any insurance
loss where its estimated amount exceeds the figure set out in the RISK DETAILS. Such notice shall include information
about facts, legal assessment and estimated amount of loss. After such notice the Reinsured shall keep the Reinsurer
informed about the development of any such claim or loss.
The Reinsured shall also notify the total amount reserved for outstanding losses, broken down by line of business and
Reinsurance Period, for the periods and at the deadlines set out in the RISK DETAILS.
The parties may agree in the RISK DETAILS that the Reinsured shall notify, in a bordereau, all settled claims,
including interest, Allocated Expenses and recoveries, for the periods and at the deadlines set out in the RISK
DETAILS.
Condition 17
Claim Settlement / Claims Cooperation
Claims shall be settled by the Reinsured.
As regards the settlement of any insurance loss to be notified immediately, it is a condition precedent to the Reinsurer's
liability that, upon the Reinsurer's request, the Reinsured shall cooperate with the Reinsurer or any other person
designated by the Reinsurer, in a timely manner.
Condition 18 Inspection
of Records
Upon request the Reinsured shall make available to the Reinsurer or its duly authorised representatives at the Reinsured's
head office or at any other place it may be located all information relating to the business reinsured under this Contract in
the Reinsured's possession or under its control.
The Reinsurer may exercise its right of inspection at any reasonable time. Notification of such visits shall be given at least
two weeks and, in urgent cases, at least forty-eight hours in advance.
Upon request the Reinsured shall provide the Reinsurer with copies, to be made at the Reinsurers expense, of any of the
books, accounts or other documents containing information relating to the business reinsured under this Contract.
Should arbitration or judicial proceedings be pending or initiated between the parties, the Reinsurer shall exercise its right
of inspection through a person designated and authorised by the respective arbitrator or judge.
Condition 19
Utmost Good Faith and Due Diligence
The Reinsured shall carry out the insurance business as if there were no reinsurance and with the due diligence of a
DRAFT CTT.../2018 Page 12
competent insurer following the custom and usage of the insurance business in the relevant market.
Condition 20 Accounting System
The accounting system in respect of this Contract, meaning the system allocating items included in any accounts to the
respective Reinsurance Period, shall be the system set out in the RISK DETAILS. Such system may be the accounting-
year-system, the year-of-occurrence-system, the underwriting-year-system or a combination thereof.
Condition 21 Account
The Reinsured shall provide the Reinsurer with an account for each period and at the deadline as set out in the RISK
DETAILS.
The account shall include such reinsurance premiums and Reinsurance Compensations as correspond to the insurance
premiums and Insurance Compensations included in the Reinsured’s account for the same accounting period.
Commissions and other items shall be included as appropriate.
The account shall be rendered in the Main currency and broken down by line of business. Amounts paid in a currency
other than the Main currency shall be converted at the Official Rate of Exchange on the day of the respective payment.
The Official Rate of Exchange applied shall be stated in the account.
In the event of change in the Reinsurer's participation share or quota share all consequent account movements shall be
made in the same account as provided for in the RISK DETAILS.
Condition 22
Confirmation of Account and Payment of Balance
The Reinsurer shall confirm the account or object to it within the time limit set out in the RISK DETAILS. Should the
Reinsurer object to the account, the Reinsured shall provide the Reinsurer with an adjusted account.
Any balance due under the account shall be paid within the time limit set out in the RISK DETAILS. Any balance paid by
the Reinsurer shall be deemed as confirmation of the respective account unless an error or omission has occurred.
Condition 23 Cash Calls
Whenever the amount of the Insurance Compensation exceeds the figure set out in the RISK DETAILS, the Reinsured
may ask the Reinsurer for payment within ten working days after receipt of such request.
However, it is a condition precedent to the Reinsurer's duty to pay within such time limit, that the Reinsured shall prove
that it has paid or is about to pay the Insured in respect of the relevant insurance loss and that the Reinsured shall provide
the Reinsurer with all related facts, legal assessment and adjusting reports, unless the Reinsurer expressly waives such
rights of information.
Condition 24 Payment Currency
Payments between the parties shall be made in the Main Currency.
Should a currency be used for payment other than the Main Currency, conversions shall be calculated at the Official Rate
of Exchange on the day of each respective payment.
Condition 25 Set Off
Either party may at its discretion set off against any amounts due to the other party under this Contract or any other
Contracts between the parties any amounts which are due from the other party under this Contract or those other
Contracts, notwithstanding whether the amount refers to account balances or loss payments, life or non life business,
reinsurance or retrocession business.
Condition 26 Commencement and Duration
This Contract shall take effect at the date set out in the RISK DETAILS and shall remain effective until termination.
Condition 27
DRAFT CTT.../2018 Page 13
Policies in Force at Commencement
Should the parties agree in the RISK DETAILS to cover Policies in force at commencement of this Contract in respect of
losses, which occur on or subsequent to such commencement date, the Reinsured shall pay reinsurance premium as a
premium portfolio entry in respect of the period subsequent to the commencement date of this Contract. Such premium
shall be calculated pro rata temporis or by applying statistical methods, in particular proportional and flat-rate methods,
expected to give approximately the same results as individual calculations.
Condition 28 Losses Outstanding at Commencement
Should the parties agree in the RISK DETAILS that the Reinsurer shall assume liability to compensate the Reinsured in
respect of losses outstanding at commencement of this Contract, the Reinsured shall pay the Reinsurer as a loss portfolio
entry the percentage share, set out in the RISK DETAILS, of outstanding losses.
Condition 29 Ordinary Termination
This Contract may be terminated or modified by excluding one or several lines of business at the close of any
Reinsurance Period by either party giving to the other party not less than three months prior notice of termination.
Any notice of termination shall be communicated in writing by registered letter, facsimile, telex or telegram or by any other
means of instantaneous communications that provide a permanent record of such communication and addressed to the
other party at its head office or at any other address which it may have designated for such purpose.
In the event of an interruption of communications any notice of termination shall be deemed to take effect as soon as it is
dispatched or submitted for dispatch.
Condition 30 Immediate Termination
Either party shall have the right to terminate this Contract at any time with immediate effect upon the following events:
a) The other party reduces its paid up capital in order to pay its debts.
b) The other party has become insolvent or is unable to pay its due debts, or an order of adjudication or liquidation or
any other order that initiates liquidation proceedings in respect of the other party instituted by any court or regulatory
authority.
c) The authority to transact any class of insurance or reinsurance in respect of either party is withdrawn, suspended or
made conditional by any court or regulatory authority.
d) The performance of the whole or any part of this Contract is prohibited or rendered impossible de jure or de facto.
e) The other party fails seriously to comply with the terms and conditions of this Contract.
f) The country in which the other party has its domicile or head office becomes involved in armed hostilities with
another country, whether war be declared or not, or is partly or completely occupied by another power, or is
affected by civil war.
Either party affected by any of the above-mentioned events shall notify the other party in writing within thirty days after its
occurrence, unless such event is obviously known by the other party.
Either party may exercise the right of termination by giving written notice to the other party at its head office or at any other
address which it may have designated for such purpose within thirty days after obtaining knowledge of any of the above-
mentioned events. Notice of termination shall be deemed to be served upon despatch or, where communications between
the parties are interrupted, also upon attempted despatch.
Written notice shall be deemed to include facsimile and telegram.
In the event of this treaty being terminated at any date other than that set out in the Ordinary Termination Clause then the
premium due to the Reinsurer shall be calculated upon the Company’s “premium income” up to the date of termination (pro
rata temporis). The rights and obligations of both parties under this treaty shall remain in full force until the effective date of
termination.
Condition 31
DRAFT CTT.../2018 Page 14
Optional Cancelation Clause
The reinsured has the right, by any potential change of control of the Reinsured (by change of ownership or otherwise), to
early terminate this contract at 31.03.2019, 30.06.2019, 30.09.2019, subject to 3 months’ prior written notice of early
termination to reinsurers.
In the event of early termination, all risks already ceded in this treaty, prior to the date of early termination, will continue to
be covered under this treaty until their natural expiry date.
This clause supersedes any other conditions or clauses contained within the treaty.
Condition 32 Reinsurer Downgrade
In the event that the Insurer Financial Strength (IFS) rating of the Reinsurer (as determined by S&P Global Ratings and/or
A.M. Best) in force at the inception of this Contract is downgraded during the period of this Contract, the Reinsured may
elect to terminate the participation of that individual subscribing Reinsurer.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, for a Reinsurer rated A minus (A-) or above at the commencement of this Contract, this
downgrade provision will only operate when the deterioration in rating is to a level below A minus (A-).
In circumstances where a rating is given to the Reinsurer by both S&P Global Ratings and A.M. Bests which differ to the
extent that one of the ratings is inferior to the other then the rating of S&P Global Ratings shall prevail.
The status of Credit Watch as defined by S&P Global Ratings or a rating modifier of 'u' (Under Review) applied to a rated
Company as defined by A.M. Bests shall not, of itself, be construed as a downgrading for the purposes of this provision.
The effective date of such termination shall be determined at the sole discretion of the Reinsured provided that the date so
determined shall not be earlier than the date upon which the Notice of Termination is served by the Reinsured.
Condition 33
Policies in Force at Termination
Should the parties agree in the RISK DETAILS to cease coverage for Policies in force at termination of this Contract in
respect of losses, which occur subsequent to such termination date, the Reinsurer shall return unearned reinsurance
premium as a premium portfolio exit. Such premium shall be calculated by applying the same methodology used for
premium portfolio entries.
However, the parties may agree in the RISK DETAILS that after termination of this Contract due to expiry or ordinary
termination the Reinsurer will continue to grant coverage in respect of Policies in force until their natural expiry,
cancellation or next anniversary, whichever occurs first, except that for Policies with a term of twelve months plus odd time
coverage shall not be granted for more than eighteen months in total.
Condition 34
Losses Outstanding at Termination
The termination of this Contract shall not affect the Reinsurer's liability to compensate the Reinsured in respect of losses
outstanding at the date of termination of this Contract.
However, should the parties agree in the RISK DETAILS to release the Reinsurer from any such liability (clean cut), the
Reinsurer shall pay the Reinsured as a loss portfolio exit the percentage share, set out in the RISK DETAILS, of
outstanding losses.
Condition 35
Accessory Duties
Accessory duties under this Contract, such as the duty to provide accounts, to report claims and losses or to make
information available continue as long as there is any outstanding debt under this Contract irrespective of the reason for
termination.
Condition 36 Change in Participation Share, Retention, Quota Share, Surplus Liability or
Commission
Any increase or decrease in the Reinsurer’s participation share, the quota share, the Surplus Liability, the Reinsured’s
Retention as well as any change in the commission percentage share shall apply to Policies in force and to losses
DRAFT CTT.../2018 Page 15
outstanding at the date of change according to the application of this Contract to Policies in force and to losses
outstanding at commencement and at termination of this Contract.
Condition 37 Form
of Alteration
No alteration of this Contract shall be effective unless in writing and duly signed on behalf of both parties.
Condition 38
Change in
Law
In the event of any change in the applicable law after commencement of this Contract by which the Reinsurer's liability
hereunder is materially increased or extended, the parties agree to take up for immediate discussion a suitable revision to
the terms of this Contract.
Changes in the applicable law can arise from legislative and administrative acts as well as from decisions of the courts.
Should the parties within six months after the effective date of any change in the applicable law fail to agree on such
revision this Contract shall operate as if such change had not occurred.
Condition 39
Loss occurrence definition (amended from 01.01.2016)
For the purpose of this Agreement, a loss occurrence shall include all insured losses which arise directly from the same cause
and which occur during the same period of time and in the same area. Such cause is understood to be the peril which directly
occasions the losses or where there are several perils which, in an unbroken chain of causation, have occasioned the losses,
the peril which triggered the chain of causation.
DEFINITIONS
The words “loss occurrence” shall mean all individual losses arising out of and directly occasioned by one catastrophe or one
event. However, the duration and extend of any “loss occurrence” so defined shall be limited to:
a) 72 consecutive hours as regards a hurricane, a typhoon, windstorm, rainstorm, hailstorm and/or tornado.
b) 168 consecutive hours as regards earthquake, flood, sea-quake, tidal wave and/or volcanic eruption.
c) 72 consecutive hours and within the limits of any one city, town or village as regards strikes, riots, civil commotion and
malicious damage.
d) 72 consecutive hours as regards any “loss occurrence” which includes individual loss or losses from any of the perils
mentioned in a), c) above and 168 consecutive hours as regards any “loss occurrence” which includes individual loss or
losses from any of the perils mentioned in b) above.
e) 168 consecutive hours for any other catastrophe or whatsoever nature and no individual loss from whatever insured peril,
which occurs outside these periods or areas, shall be included in that “loss occurrence”.
The Reinsured may choose the date and time when any such period of consecutive hours commences and if any catastrophe
is of greater duration than the above periods, the Reinsured may divide that catastrophe into two or more “loss occurrences”,
provided that no two periods overlap and provided that no period commences earlier than the date and time of the happening
of the first recorded individual loss to the Reinsured in that catastrophe.
Condition 40 GDPR Clause
PENDING
Condition 41 Intermediary
Carpenter Turner S.A. Insurance and Reinsurance Broker & Consultant (CARPENTER TURNER), is hereby recognized as
the Intermediary negotiating this Contract for all business hereunder. Payments and all communications (including notices,
statements, premiums, return premiums, taxes, losses, loss expense, salvages, and loss settlements) relating thereto shall be
transmitted to the Reinsured or the Reinsurer through CARPENTER TURNER, 7, Granikou Street, Maroussi, 151 25 Athens,
Greece.
DRAFT CTT.../2018 Page 16
Risk Details - Appendices
Appendix No. 1 Exclusions
The following shall be excluded from this Agreement.
• Obligatory reinsurances of all kinds (other than those mentioned in the Schedule) including line slips,
binders and captive company business.
• Insurances and facultative reinsurances on an excess of loss basis or having excess of loss character;
insurances or policies being part of layered coverage including primaries and policies on a first loss basis.
• All Risks other than:
o the company’s Residential All Risks policy for risks with Sum Insured in excess of € 300,000 (unless
agreed on a Special Acceptance Basis by the Leading Reinsurer, Odyssey Reinsurance Company, under
this treaty), or D.I.C. coverage; any insurance policy with duration of more than 12 months and o the
company’s All Risks Policies for Hotels, Malls, office buildings and Hospitals (Property Damage and Loss
of Profit), without limitation to the number of risks.
• Non-property perils and hazards or objects usually covered under other classes of business (e.g. third
party liability (other than the casualty cover mentioned above under para 3.3), motor, aviation, marine),
except liability for third party property damage from any peril covered for which the insured is held liable
and where such peril is insured as an extension of the fire policy (excluding nonphysical damage losses,
unless resulting as a consequence of the third party property damage).
• All insurances originating from pools, associations and/or any other underwriting authorizations granted to
brokers.
• Political Risks Exclusion Clause (Reinsurance) as set out hereunder:
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary within this reinsurance or any endorsement thereto it is
agreed that this reinsurance excludes loss, damage, cost or expense of whatsoever nature directly or
indirectly caused by, resulting from or in connection with any of the following regardless of any other
cause or event contributing concurrently or in any other sequence to the loss:
1) war, invasion, acts of foreign enemy, hostilities or warlike operations (whether war be declared or not), civil
war; permanent or temporary dispossession resulting from confiscation, commandeering or requisition by
any lawfully constituted authority; mutiny, civil commotion assuming the proportions of or amounting to a
popular rising, military rising, insurrection, rebellion, revolution, military or usurped power, martial law or
state of siege or any of the events or causes which determine the proclamation or maintenance of martial
law or state of siege;
or
2) any act of terrorism except when written in strict adherence with the relevant Terrorism Clause as
attached.
If not otherwise defined, an act of terrorism means an act, including but not limited to the use of force or
violence and/or the threat thereof, of any person or group(s) of persons, whether acting alone or on behalf of or
in connection with any organization(s) or government(s), committed for political, religious, ideological, or ethnic
purposes or reasons including the intention to influence any government and/or to put the public, or any section
of the public, in fear.
This also excludes loss, damage, cost or expense of whatsoever nature directly or indirectly caused by,
resulting from or in connection with any action taken in controlling, preventing, suppressing or in any way
relating to (1) and/or (2) above.
DRAFT CTT.../2018 Page 17
If the Reinsurer alleges that by reason of this exclusion, any loss, damage, cost or expense is not covered by this reinsurance
the burden of proving the contrary shall be upon the Company.
• “Nuclear/Atomic Pools and Risks according to “Nuclear Energy Risks Exclusion Clause, 1994” (NMA 1975a) as attached.
• Furthermore, the Radioactive Contamination Exclusion Clause shall apply, as set out hereunder: Unless specifically
agreed for an insured loss involving nuclear material under determined circumstances, this reinsurance does not cover
loss, damage, cost or expense of whatsoever nature directly or indirectly caused by, resulting from or in connection with
nuclear energy or radioactivity of any kind of the following regardless of any other cause or event contributing
concurrently or in any other sequence to the loss:
a) ionizing radiations from or contamination by radioactivity from any nuclear fuel or from any nuclear waste or from the
combustion of nuclear fuel;
b) the radioactive, toxic, explosive or other hazardous or contaminating properties of any nuclear installation, reactor or
other nuclear assembly or nuclear component thereof;
c) any weapon or device employing atomic or nuclear fission and/or fusion or other like reaction or radioactive force or
matter.
d) the radioactive, toxic, explosive or other hazardous or contaminating properties of any radioactive matter. The
exclusion in this sub-clause does not extend to loss or damage to the insured property caused by radioactive
isotopes, other than nuclear fuel, when such isotopes are being prepared, carried, stored, or used for commercial,
agricultural, medical, scientific or other similar peaceful purposes on the insured premises. This inclusion shall not
apply to property, facilities or plants coming under the scope of application of NMA 1975.”
• Pollution and Contamination Exclusion Clause as set out hereunder:
This reinsurance shall not cover any loss or damage due to contamination, pollution, soot, deposition, impairment with dust,
chemical precipitation, adulteration, poisoning, impurity, epidemic and disease or due to any limitation or prevention of the
use of objects because of hazards to health.
This exclusion does not apply if such loss or damage arises as a direct consequence of the perils:
o Fire, Lightning, Explosion, Impact of Aircraft o Vehicle Impact,
Sonic Boom,
o Accidental escape of water from any tank apparatus or pipe o Riot, Civil
Commotion, Malicious Damage o Storm, Hail o Flood, Inundation o Earthquake o
Landslide, Subsidence o Pressure of Snow, Avalanche o Volcanic Eruption
All the other terms and conditions of the reinsurance treaty shall be unaltered and especially the exclusions shall not be
superseded by this clause.
• Space and space related risks such as satellites, spacecraft, launch vehicles and major components thereof from the
beginning of transit to launch site.
• Launch sites.
• Off-shore insurances.
• Engineering insurances of any kind.
• Credit insurances of any kind; guarantees (bonds) of any kind (including financial guarantees), fidelity and surety bonds;
Bankers Blanket Bond.
• Extra-contractual obligations, declaratory judgment expenses and loss in excess of policy limits.
• Growing, standing and drying crops and timber.
• Products integrity/products tampering.
• Underground mining.
• Transmission and Distribution Lines Exclusion Clause as set out hereunder:
All transmission and distribution lines, including wires, cables, poles, pylons, standards, towers and any equipment of any
type which may be attendant to such installations, including sub-stations of any description. This exclusion includes but is
DRAFT CTT.../2018 Page 18
not limited to transmission or distribution of electrical power, telephone or telegraph signals, and all communication signals
whether audio or visual.
This exclusion applies to above and below ground equipment, which are more than 150 meters (or 500 feet) from an
insured structure.
This exclusion applies both to physical loss or damage to the equipment and all business interruption, consequential loss
and/or other contingency losses related to transmission and distribution lines.
This Exclusion does not apply to underground cables.
• Burglary if not written as an extension of the Fire policy. If Burglary is written as an extension of a Fire policy, the following
additional exclusions apply:
- Simple theft
- Mysterious disappearance
- Jewelers, Jewelers Block, Goldsmiths, Watchbrokers and Pawnbrokers
- Cash in Safe
- Cash in Counter
- Cash in Transit
• Electronic Data Exclusion (Reinsurance) Clause as attached NMA 2915.
• Cyber risk clause as attached.
• No Iranian business is written by “THE ETHNIKI” and/or ceded under this treaty
Appendix No 2 Terrorism clause
The Reinsurer provides cover for loss, damage, cost or expense due to any act of terrorism subject to the limits set out in
the Schedule(s) attached to this agreement.
• For the purpose of this agreement, an act of terrorism means an act, including but not limited to the use of force or
violence and/or the threat thereof, of any person or group(s) of persons, whether acting alone or on behalf of or in
connection with any organization(s) or government(s), committed for political, religious, ideological, or ethnic purposes or
reasons including the intention to influence any government and/or to put the public, or any section of the public, in fear.
If the Reinsurer alleges that by reason of this clause, any loss, damage, cost or expense is not covered by this Agreement,
the burden of providing the contrary shall be upon the Company.
• It is agreed that, regardless of any contributory causes, this reinsurance does not cover any loss, damage, cost or
expense directly or indirectly arising out of:
o biological or chemical contamination o
missiles
due to any act of terrorism as defined hereinabove.
• Total insured Value and Target Risks Exclusion (Terrorism)
With respect to the cover of Terrorism, this reinsurance treaty does not cover any risks with Total Insured Value (TIV Risks)
and Target Risks as defined below.
For the purposes of this exclusion, TIV Risks are all property policies of a policyholder with a combined total sum insured for
property damage and business interruption of more than € 2,500 million in which the Company is involved or whose
existence and/or whose sum insured is known to the Company.
For the purpose of this exclusion “Target Risks” mean:
a) High-rise buildings with more than 25 storeys over ground including the ground floor.
b) Tunnels and bridges regardless of whether insured separately or only as part of an insured policy if the total sum
insured of the tunnel or the bridge exceeds € 750 million.
c) Power stations, if the total sum insured of a power station (buildings and contents) at one site exceeds € 1,000 million
or if the power capacity exceeds 600 MW.
d) Off-shore risks. “Off-shore risks” means oil platforms, pumping stations, sea cables, sea pipelines.
DRAFT CTT.../2018 Page 19
e) International airports, major railway stations, underground stations, dams and petrochemical plants.
Note: TIV Risks: If the same property is insured under different policies (e.g. Fire Policy, Machinery Breakdown Policy) and
subject to different insured perils (e.g. fire, all risks) the highest sum insured for that property under the respective policies
should only be considered once in the calculation of the total sum insured of € 2,500 million. The said policies entail all
policies in which the Company is involved or whose existence and/or whose sum insured is known to him. The same shall
apply analogously to business interruption insurance.
- All terrorism risks that can be ceded to local pools especially designed for such purpose are excluded.
NMA 1975a
NUCLEAR ENERGY RISKS EXCLUSION CLAUSE
(REINSURANCE) (1994)
(Worldwide exclusion U.S.A. and Canada)
This agreement shall exclude Nuclear Energy Risks whether such risks are written directly and/or by way of reinsurance
and/or via Pools and/or Associations.
For all purposes of this agreement Nuclear Energy Risks shall mean all first party and/or third party insurances or
reinsurance (other than Workers' Compensation and Employers' Liability) in respect of:
I) All Property on the site of a nuclear power station.
Nuclear Reactors, reactor buildings and plant and equipment therein on any site other than a nuclear power station.
II) All Property, on any site (including but not limited to the sites referred to in I.) above) used or having been used for:
a) The generation of nuclear energy; or
b) The Production, Use or Storage of Nuclear Material.
III) Any other Property eligible for insurance by the relevant local Nuclear Insurance Pool and/or Association but only to
the extent of the requirements of that local Pool and/or Association.
IV) The supply of goods and services to any of the sites, described in I.) to III.), above unless such insurance or
reinsurance shall exclude the perils of irradiation and contamination by Nuclear Material.
Except as mentioned below, Nuclear Energy Risks shall not include:
(i) Any insurance or reinsurance in respect of the construction or erection or installation or replacement or repair or
maintenance or decommissioning of Property as described in I.) to III.) above (including contractors' plant and
equipment);
(ii) any Machinery Breakdown or other Engineering insurance or reinsurance not coming within the scope of (i) above;
Provided always that such insurance or reinsurance shall exclude the perils of irradiation and contamination by Nuclear
Material.
However, the above exemption shall not extend to:
1. The provision of any insurance or reinsurance whatsoever in respect of:
a) Nuclear Material,
b) any Property in the High Radioactivity Zone or Area of any Nuclear Installation as from the introduction of
Nuclear Material or - for reactor installations - as from fuel loading or first critically where so agreed with the
relevant local Nuclear Insurance Pool and/or Association.
2. The provision of any insurance or reinsurance for the perils mentioned below:
• fire, lightning, explosion;
• earthquake;
• aircraft and other aerial devices or articles dropped there from;
• irradiation and radioactive contamination;
DRAFT CTT.../2018 Page 20
• any other peril insured by the relevant local Nuclear Insurance Pool and/or Association;
in respect of any other Property not specified in 1) above which directly involves the production, use or storage of
Nuclear Material as from the introduction of Nuclear Material into such Property.
Definitions
“Nuclear Material” means:
i) Nuclear fuel, other than natural uranium and depleted uranium, capable of producing energy by a self-sustaining chain
process of nuclear fission outside a Nuclear Reactor, either alone or in combination with some other material, and
ii) Radioactive Products or Waste.
“Radioactive Products or Waste” means any radioactive material produced in, or any material made radioactive by exposure
to the radiation incidental to the production or utilisation of nuclear fuel, but does not include radioisotopes which have
reached the final stage of fabrication so as to be usable for any scientific, medical, agricultural or industrial purpose.
“Nuclear Installation” means:
i) any Nuclear Reactor;
ii) any factory using nuclear fuel for the production of Nuclear Material, or any factory for the processing of Nuclear
Material, including any factory for the reprocessing of irradiated nuclear fuel, and
iii) any facility where Nuclear Material is stored, other than storage incidental to the carriage of such material.
“Nuclear Reactor” means any structure containing nuclear fuel in such an arrangement that a self-sustaining chain process
of nuclear fission can occur therein without an additional source of neutrons.
“Production, Use or Storage of Nuclear Material” means the production, manufacture, enrichment, conditioning, processing,
reprocessing, use, storage, handling and disposal of Nuclear Material.
“Property” shall mean all land, buildings, structures, plants, equipment, vehicles, contents (including but not limited to liquids
and gases) and all material of whatever description whether fixed or not.
“High Radioactivity Zone or Area” means:
i) for nuclear power stations and Nuclear Reactors, the vessel or structure which immediately contains the core
(including its supports and shrouding) and all the contents thereof, the fuel elements, the control rods and the
irradiated fuel store; and
ii) for non-reactor Nuclear Installations, any area where the level of radioactivity requires the provision of a biological
shield.
Note: Whenever used herein the term “agreement” shall be understood to mean “Agreement”, “Contract”, “Reinsurance”,
“Treaty”, or whatever other term is used in the reinsurance document to which this clause is attached to designate the
document.
Any other liability, loss, cost or expense of whatsoever nature directly or indirectly caused by, resulting from, arising out of or
in connection with nuclear reaction, nuclear radiation or radioactive contamination regardless of any other cause contributing
concurrently or in any other sequence to the loss, save where such liability, loss cost or expense arises under insurances or
reinsurances expressly exempted from NMA 1975a in respect of which the Company has specifically granted cover.
NMA 2915
Electronic Data Exclusion Clause (Reinsurance)
1. Electronic Data Exclusion
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary within this Reinsurance Agreement or any endorsement thereto, it is
understood and agreed as follows:
DRAFT CTT.../2018 Page 21
a) This Reinsurance does not reinsure loss, damage, destruction, distortion, erasure, corruption or alteration
of ELECTRONIC DATA from any cause whatsoever (including but not limited to COMPUTER VIRUS) or
loss of use, reduction in functionality, cost, expense of whatsoever nature resulting there from, regardless
of any other cause or event contributing concurrently or in any other sequence to the loss.
ELECTRONIC DATA means facts, concepts and information converted to a form useable for
communications, interpretation or processing by electronic and electromechanical data processing or
electronically controlled equipment and includes programs, software and other coded instructions for the
processing and manipulation of data or the direction and manipulation of such equipment.
COMPUTER VIRUS means a set of corrupting, harmful or otherwise unauthorized instructions or code
including a set of maliciously introduced unauthorized instructions or code, programmatic or otherwise, that
propagate themselves through a computer system or network of whatsoever nature. COMPUTER VIRUS
includes but is not limited to “Trojan Horses”, “worms” and “time or logic bombs”.
b) However, in the event that a peril listed below results from any of the matters described in paragraph a)
above, this Reinsurance, subject to all terms, conditions and exclusions of the original Policy, will cover
physical damage to property insured by the original Policy directly caused by such listed peril.
Listed Perils:
Fire and Explosion
2. Electronic Data Processing Media Valuation
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary within this Reinsurance Agreement or any endorsement thereto, it is
understood and agreed as follows:
Should electronic data processing media insured by the original Policy suffer physical loss or damage insured by
the original Policy, then the basis of valuation shall be the cost of the blank media plus the costs of copying the
ELECTRONIC DATA from back-up or from originals of a previous generation. These costs will not include research
and engineering nor any other cost of recreating, gathering or assembling such ELECTRONIC DATA. If the media
is not repaired, replaced or restored the basis of valuation shall be the cost of the blank media. However, this
Reinsurance does not reinsure any amount pertaining to the value of such ELECTRONIC DATA to the Assured or
any other party, even if such ELECTRONIC DATA cannot be recreated, gathered or assembled.
Cyber risk exclusion clause
Losses arising, directly or indirectly, out of:
(i) loss of, alteration of, or damage to or
(ii) a reduction in the functionality, availability or operation of
a computer system, hardware, programme, software, data, information repository, microchip, integrated circuit or similar
device in computer equipment or non-computer equipment, whether the property of the policyholder or the reinsured or not,
do not in and of themselves constitute an event unless arising out of one or more of the following perils:
fire, lightning, explosion, aircraft or vehicle impact, falling objects, windstorm, hail, tornado, cyclone, hurricane, earthquake,
volcano, tsunami, flood, freeze or weight of snow.
DRAFT CTT.../2018 Page 22
Information
The following information has been provided to Reinsurers to support the assessment of the risk at the time of
underwriting.
a. Renewal information package including statistics sent in June 2018 as seen by the Reinsurers and held on file by
b. Estimated Premium Income in Euro: PENDING
Fire Quota Share (retained & ceded)
Fire 1st Surplus
Total ceded Premium
DRAFT CTT.../2018 Page 23
REINSURED SIGNING PAGE
Attaching to and forming part of
FIRE QUOTA SHARE & SURPLUS REINSURANCE (REINSURANCE CONTRACT CTT.../2018)
The Reinsured hereby agrees to the terms and conditions of this Contract.
Signed for and behalf of
Name :
Position :
Signed on this day of 201.
The Reinsurer’s signed participation shall be notified to the Reinsurer by. Insurance and Reinsurance Broker & Consultant
(), without delay, once the aforementioned signed participation has been confirmed by the Reinsured.
Following advice of the aforementioned signed participation, the Reinsurer hereby agrees to immediately forward duplicate
original completed Reinsurer Signing Pages to Insurance and Reinsurance Broker & Consultant (), to enable compliance
with Reinsured Evidence of Cover requirements.
Further, in order to enable. Insurance and Reinsurance Broker & Consultant (), to provide initial Evidence of Cover to the
Reinsured pending receipt of the above-mentioned duplicate documents, it is agreed that Carpenter Turner S.A. Insurance
DRAFT CTT.../2018 Page 24
and Reinsurance Broker & Consultant () shall be permitted to enter the previously advised Reinsurer’s signed participation
on the copy Reinsurer Signing Page forwarded by the Reinsurer by e mail or facsimile in confirmation of their written
participation herein.